<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN"
 "reference.dtd">
<reference id="IssueNumber13107" xml:lang="en-us">
 <title>DITA 1.3 proposed feature #13107</title>
 <shortdesc>Refine the effective default values for <codeph>@scope</codeph>,
   <codeph>@format</codeph>, and <codeph>@type</codeph> using hints from the <codeph>@href</codeph>
  value.</shortdesc>
 <refbody>
  <section>
   <title>Date and version information</title>
   <p>
    <ul>
     <li>Date that this feature proposal was completed: 2013-03-01</li>
     <li>Champion of the proposal: Chris Nitchie</li>
     <li>E-Mail Discussion: <xref
       href="https://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/dita/201203/msg00034.html" scope="external"
       format="html">https://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/dita/201203/msg00034.html</xref></li>
    </ul>
   </p>
  </section>
  <section>
   <title>Original requirement or use case</title>
   <p>The processor default values for <codeph>@scope</codeph>, <codeph>@format</codeph>, and
     <codeph>@type</codeph> make sense for local DITA topic references. However, for some common
    links, especially those to external HTTP URLs, the processor defaults can cause problems in some
    processors, resulting in a need to set those attributes explicitly. The default values should be
    informed by value of the <codeph>@href</codeph> attribute.</p>
  </section>
  <section>
   <title>Use cases</title>
   <p>An author creates a link to a web URL using simply an <codeph>@href</codeph>, but without any
    value for <codeph>@scope</codeph>, <codeph>@format</codeph>, or <codeph>@type</codeph>. When
    that link is published, it is effectively treated as an external HTML link, and the content is
    not copied to the output location.</p>
  </section>
  <section>
   <title>Proposed solution</title>
   <p>When determining the effective value for <codeph>@scope</codeph>, <codeph>@format</codeph>,
    and <codeph>@type</codeph>:</p>
   <ol id="ol_gxc_nls_jj">
    <li>If the attribute is explicitly specified, that value is used.</li>
    <li>If the attribute exists on an ancestor element such that its value will cascade into this
     element, that value is used.</li>
    <li>Otherwise, the effective default is determined by examining the value of the
      <codeph>@href</codeph> attribute.</li>
   </ol>
   <p>The rules for specific attributes would be as follows.</p>
   <dl>
    <dlentry>
     <dt><codeph>@scope</codeph></dt>
     <dd>If the <codeph>@href</codeph> attribute specifies an absolute URI whose scheme is
       <codeph>http:</codeph> or <codeph>https:</codeph>, then the effective value is
       <codeph>"external"</codeph>. Otherwise, the effective value is
       <codeph>"local"</codeph>.<note> If the <codeph>@href</codeph> attribute specifies a relative
       URI, then scope is always <codeph>"local"</codeph> regardless of what the resolved absolute
       URI would be. For example, if a map is stored on a WebDAV server at
        <filepath>"http://example.com/docs/myMap.ditamap"</filepath>, and it contains
        <codeph>&lt;topicref href="topics/topic1.dita"/></codeph>, then the scope of that topicref
       is <codeph>"local"</codeph> even though the resolved absolute URI of the referenced topic has
       a scheme of "http".</note></dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt><codeph>@format</codeph></dt>
     <dd>
      <ul id="ul_rsf_5ms_jj">
       <li>Generally, if the <codeph>@href</codeph> attribute specifies a file extension, the
        effective <codeph>@format</codeph> will be that extension, after conversion to lower-case,
        and with no leading period.</li>
       <li>The only exception to this is if the extension is <codeph>"xml"</codeph>, in which case
        the effective <codeph>@format</codeph> will be <codeph>"dita"</codeph>. </li>
       <li>If there is no extension, but the <codeph>@href</codeph> value is an absolute URI whose
        scheme is <codeph>http:</codeph> or <codeph>https:</codeph>, then the effective value is
         <codeph>"html"</codeph>.</li>
       <li>Processors may, but need not, provide a mechanism by which other URI patterns can be
        mapped to effective <codeph>@format</codeph> values. <draft-comment author="Chris Nitchie"
         >This could cause interoperability problems without a standard way of providing custom
         mappings, and as such, I'm not married to this provision. However, whether we say it or
         not, vendors are liable to do it.</draft-comment></li>
       <li>Otherwise, the effective format is <codeph>"dita"</codeph>.</li>
      </ul>
     </dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt><codeph>@type</codeph></dt>
     <dd>If the effective <codeph>@format</codeph> is <codeph>"dita"</codeph> and there is no
      fragment identifier, or the fragment identifier does not contain <codeph>'/'</codeph>, then
      the effective value is <codeph>"topic"</codeph>. Otherwise, there is no effective default
      value. In such cases, if the effective <codeph>@scope</codeph> is <codeph>"local"</codeph>,
      processors should determine the effective value by examining the link target, per the current
      rules.</dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>Link Text</dt>
     <dd>If an <codeph>"external"</codeph> link does not contain any content, and no content visible
      content can be determined through conref or keyref resolution, then processors should use the
       <codeph>@href</codeph> value as the visible link text.</dd>
    </dlentry>
   </dl>
  </section>
  <section>
   <title>Benefits</title>
   <p>This will simplify the requirements on link authors to specify correct values for the linking
    attributes that go along with <codeph>@href</codeph>, leading to simpler authoring.</p>
  </section>
  <section>
   <title>Technical requirements</title>
   <p>
    <dl>
     <dlentry>
      <dt>DTD and Schema modifications</dt>
      <dd>None.</dd>
     </dlentry>
     <dlentry>
      <dt>Processing impact</dt>
      <dd>Some processors may have to update their link handling code according to the rules
       outlined above.</dd>
     </dlentry>
    </dl>
    <dl>
     <dlentry>
      <dt>Overall usability</dt>
      <dd>This will simplify the link authoring process for DITA authors.</dd>
     </dlentry>
    </dl>
   </p>
  </section>
  <section>
   <title>Costs</title>
   <p>The specification topics covering the <codeph>@scope</codeph>, <codeph>@format</codeph>, and
     <codeph>@type</codeph> attributes will need to be updated to reflect the new processor
    defaults. Also, the above rules should be collected in some single topic, probably the topic,
     <b>URI-based (direct) addressing</b>, or to a new topic somewhere in the language
    specification.</p>
   <p>Authoring tools may need to update the logic that determines whether linking attributes need
    to be explicitly specified when inserting links. However, there will be no harm if authoring
    tools continue to insert explicit attributes that match these new processor defaults. When a
    link is activated in an authoring tool without explicit values, that logic will also need to be
    updated to determine the appropriate behavior when activating the link.</p>
   <p>These rules may lead to greater <i>percieved</i> complexity. However, it will actually make
    the authoring of non-local, non-dita links considrably simpler. In the vast majority of cases,
    only an <codeph>@href</codeph> will be required, and the other attributes will take care of
    themselves.</p>
  </section>
  <section>
   <title>Examples</title>
   <p>Take the following link:</p>
   <codeblock>&lt;xref href="http://www.oasis-open.org"/></codeblock>
   <p>To a novice author (and maybe some not-so-novice authors), this looks like a perfectly viable
    link. However, strictly going by the DITA 1.2 specificaton, this will be treated as a local dita
    link. Most processors, including the DITA Open Toolkit, will issue warnings and produce bad
    output based on this link. With the changes outlined in this proposal, however, the link will
    behave as most people would expect.</p>
  </section>
 </refbody>
</reference><?Pub Caret -3?>
<?Pub *0000003625?>
