<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_cvq_vzc_ll">
 <title>learningDomain1 and learningDomain2 Support</title>
 <shortdesc>Many questions require multiple block elements for the question statement ("prompt" or "stimulus" in instructional design parlance) and for feedback. The DITA 1.2 interaction,
    learningDomain1, design only allows for a single paragraph question and single-paragraph feedback. The learningDomain2 design
    <?oxy_insert_start author="ekimber" timestamp="20131011T162127-0500"?>uses the topic/div element as the base
    type<?oxy_insert_end?><?oxy_delete author="ekimber" timestamp="20131011T162125-0500" content="&quot;resets&quot;"?>
    <?oxy_insert_start author="ekimber" timestamp="20131011T162156-0500"?> for
    <?oxy_insert_end?><?oxy_delete author="ekimber" timestamp="20131011T162204-0500" content="the "?>interaction<?oxy_insert_start author="ekimber" timestamp="20131011T162206-0500"?>
    elements<?oxy_insert_end?>
    <?oxy_delete author="ekimber" timestamp="20131011T162214-0500" content="base to the div element "?>to provide block element support in question statements, answer content and feedback. </shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p>The DITA 1.3 learningDomain2 support deprecates the DITA 1.2 learningDomain1<?oxy_delete author="ekimber" timestamp="20131011T162241-0500" content=" support"?>, but
      <?oxy_delete author="ekimber" timestamp="20131011T162248-0500" content="includes support for"?><?oxy_insert_start author="ekimber" timestamp="20131011T162248-0500"?>enables<?oxy_insert_end?>
      backward compatibility by redefining the learningAssessment topic with the option<?oxy_delete author="ekimber" timestamp="20131011T162305-0500" content="s"?>
      <?oxy_delete author="ekimber" timestamp="20131011T162307-0500" content="for"?><?oxy_insert_start author="ekimber" timestamp="20131011T162307-0500"?>of<?oxy_insert_end?> using either the DITA 1.2
      support or the DITA 1.3 support<?oxy_insert_start author="ekimber" timestamp="20131011T162310-0500"?> or both<?oxy_insert_end?>.</p>
  <section>
   <title>learningDomain2 </title>
   <p>DITA 1.3 defines two new domains for the Learning and Training
        vocabulary<?oxy_delete author="ekimber" timestamp="20131011T165136-0500" content=","?><?oxy_insert_start author="ekimber" timestamp="20131011T165136-0500"?>:<?oxy_insert_end?>
        interactionBase2Domain and learning2Domain. These two new domains mirror the existing interactionBase and learning domains, but provide a base model that allows multi-paragraph questions and
        multi-paragraph feedback. The new domains are otherwise semantically identical to the original domains.</p>
   <dl>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>learningInteractionBase2Domain </dt>
     <dd>
      <dl>
       <dlentry>
        <dt>lcInteractionBase2</dt>
        <dd>
         <p>The lcInteractionBase2 element differs from lcInteractionBase as follows:</p>
         <ul id="ul_txj_bq1_4f">
          <li>Is a specialization of div, not fig, which removes the content limitations that fig
           imposes, such as that fig cannot directly contain table, and therefore, allows the same
           content as div whereas lcInteractionBase only allows figure content.</li>
          <li>Uses lcQuestionBase2 in place of lcQuestionBase to allow multiple paragraphs within
           its content.</li>
          <li>Makes @id attribute optional for all interactions.</li>
         </ul>
        </dd>
       </dlentry>
       <dlentry>
        <dt>lcQuestionBase2 </dt>
        <dd>The lcQuestionBase2 element is also a specialization of div and allows the same content
         as div, which is anything that can occur in body except section or bodydiv. </dd>
       </dlentry>
       <dlentry>
        <dt>lcInteractionLabel2</dt>
        <dd>The lcInteractionLabel2 is a specialization of p and replaces the use of title. This
         element is necessary because div does not allow title.</dd>
       </dlentry>
      </dl>
     </dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>learning2Domain </dt>
     <dd>The learning2Domain is a clone of the 1.2 learningDomain that defines new versions of each
      of the built-in interaction types, each of which are specialized from lcInteractionBase2. In
      addition, the content models for the interactions now allow multiple lcAssets
       elements.<note>The learning2Domain uses elements from the learningDomain when the content
       models of those elements are unchanged.</note></dd>
    </dlentry>
   </dl>
  </section>
 </conbody>
</concept>
<?oxy_options track_changes="on"?>