<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita xml:lang="en-us">
  <topic id="proposal13056">
    <title>Stage 3 proposal: Feature #13056</title>
    <shortdesc>Add the ability to group information within conditional processing attributes</shortdesc>
    <body>
      <section>
        <title>Champion</title>
        <p>Robert D Anderson</p>
      </section>
      <section>
        <title>Tracking information</title>
        <simpletable frame="all" relcolwidth="1.0* 1.0* 4.0*">
          <sthead>
            <stentry>Event</stentry>
            <stentry>Date</stentry>
            <stentry>Links</stentry>
          </sthead>
          <strow>
            <stentry>Stage 1 proposal accepted</stentry>
            <stentry>Jan 3 2012</stentry>
            <stentry><xref format="html"
                href="https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/44749/minutes20120103.txt"
                scope="external"
                >https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/44749/minutes20120103.txt</xref></stentry>
          </strow>
          <strow>
            <stentry>Stage 2 proposal submitted</stentry>
            <stentry>Feb 28 (first draft), March 8, 2013 (second draft)</stentry>
            <stentry>Second draft - HTML: <xref scope="external" format="html"
                href="https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/48508/13056-AttributeGroup-Stage2.html"
                >https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/48508/13056-AttributeGroup-Stage2.html</xref>;
              DITA: <xref scope="external" format="html"
                href="https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/document.php?document_id=48507"
                >https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/document.php?document_id=48507</xref></stentry>
          </strow>
          <strow>
            <stentry>Stage 2 proposal discussed</stentry>
            <stentry>March 5, 2013</stentry>
            <stentry>Merged: <xref format="html"
                href="https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/49823/minutes2013-q12.txt"
                scope="external"
                >https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/49823/minutes2013-q12.txt</xref></stentry>
          </strow>
          <strow>
            <stentry>Stage 2 proposal approved</stentry>
            <stentry>March 12, 2013</stentry>
            <stentry>Merged: <xref format="html"
                href="https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/49823/minutes2013-q12.txt"
                scope="external"
                >https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/49823/minutes2013-q12.txt</xref></stentry>
          </strow>
          <strow>
            <stentry>Stage 3 proposal submitted to reviewers</stentry>
            <stentry/>
            <stentry>Deb Bissantz, Dick Hamilton, Kris Eberlein, Eliot Kimber</stentry>
          </strow>
          <strow>
            <stentry>Stage 3 proposal (this document) submitted</stentry>
            <stentry/>
            <stentry/>
          </strow>
        </simpletable>
      </section>
      <section>
        <title>Approved technical requirements</title>
        <p>Allow the four original property attributes (audience, platform, product, and otherprops)
          to accept grouped values, using the same syntax for generalized attribute values within
          @props and @base. Each group is to be treated as an independent attribute for the purposes
          of filtering. For eample, the groups "appserver" and "db" could be used within @product to
          create two sets of product conditions, one for related databases and another for related
          application servers. This allows content to be filtered out when all listed databases are
          filtered, without regard to specified application servers.</p>
      </section>
      <section>
        <title>Dependencies or interrelated proposals</title>
        <p>None.</p>
      </section>
      <section>
        <title>Modified DTDs</title>
        <p>No change to DTDs / Schemas. </p>
      </section>
      <section>
        <title>Modified specification documentation</title>
        <p>This update results in several changes to the topic <xref format="html"
            href="http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.2/os/spec/archSpec/condproc.html"
            scope="external"
            >http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.2/os/spec/archSpec/condproc.html</xref>. That topic
          is rendered below with revisions marked.</p>
        <p>The following changes will be made to <xref
            href="http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.2/os/spec/archSpec/conditional-processing-attributes.html"
            format="html" scope="external"
            >http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.2/os/spec/archSpec/conditional-processing-attributes.html</xref>:<simpletable
            frame="all" relcolwidth="1.0* 1.0*">
            <sthead>
              <stentry>DITA 1.2</stentry>
              <stentry>Revised for DITA 1.3</stentry>
            </sthead>
            <strow>
              <stentry>In general, a conditional processing attribute provides a list of one or more
                values separated with whitespace. For instance, <codeph>audience="administrator
                  programmer"</codeph> qualifies the content as applying to administrators and
                programmers.</stentry>
              <stentry>In general, a conditional processing attribute provides a list of one or more
                values separated with whitespace, <ph rev="13056">or it contains one or more groups
                  that subcategorize the attribute</ph>. For instance,
                  <codeph>audience="administrator programmer"</codeph> qualifies the content as
                applying to administrators and programmers. <ph rev="13056">Using groups,
                    <codeph>product="database(A B) appserver(C)"</codeph> qualifies the content as
                  applying to databases A and B, as well as to application server C.</ph></stentry>
            </strow>
          </simpletable></p>
        <p>The following change will be made to the definition of the "att" attribute on the
          &lt;prop> element inside of the DITAVAL markup (<xref
            href="http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.2/os/spec/langref/ditaval-prop.html"
            format="html" scope="external"
            >http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.2/os/spec/langref/ditaval-prop.html</xref>):<simpletable
            frame="all" relcolwidth="1.0* 1.0*">
            <sthead>
              <stentry>DITA 1.2</stentry>
              <stentry>Revised for DITA 1.3</stentry>
            </sthead>
            <strow>
              <stentry>The attribute to be acted upon. Must be one of props, audience, platform,
                product, otherprops, or a specialization of props. If the att attribute is absent,
                then the prop element declares a default behavior for any conditional processing
                attribute.</stentry>
              <stentry>The attribute to be acted upon. <ph rev="13056">If using a literal attribute
                  name, it must be one of props, audience, platform, product, otherprops, or a
                  specialization of props. Otherwise, the value should be the name of a group used
                  within the audience, platform, product, or otherprops attributes.</ph> If the att
                attribute is absent, then the prop element declares a default behavior for any
                conditional processing attribute.</stentry>
            </strow>
          </simpletable></p>
        <p>The following new example should be added to the DITAVAL language spec topic that
          currently gives sample DITAVAL markup (<xref
            href="http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.2/os/spec/langref/ditaval-val.html"
            format="html" scope="external"
            >http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.2/os/spec/langref/ditaval-val.html</xref>).</p>
        <fig id="fig_w4p_rxj_zl">
          <title>DITAVAL with conditions for groups</title>
          <codeblock>&lt;val>
   &lt;prop action="exclude" att="product" val="appserver"/>
   &lt;prop action="include" att="product" val="mySERVER"/>
   &lt;prop action="include" att="database" val="dbFIRST"/>
   &lt;prop action="include" att="database" val="dbSECOND"/>
   &lt;prop action="exclude" att="database" val="newDB"/>
&lt;/val></codeblock>
          <p>Assume that "database" and "appserver" are used as group names within the product
            attribute. In that case, the sample DITAVAL above performs the following actions:<ul>
              <li>The first prop element excludes the value "appserver" when used within the product
                attribute. It also sets a default of "exclude" for values within any appserver()
                group inside of the product attribute.</li>
              <li>The second prop element sets "mySERVER" to include; this applies whether mySERVER
                appears alone in the product attribute (<codeph>product="mySERVER"</codeph>) or
                inside of any group (<codeph>product="appserver(mySERVER)"</codeph> or
                  <codeph>product="otherGroup(mySERVER)"</codeph>).</li>
              <li>The third and fourth prop elements set the database values "dbFIRST" and
                "dbSECOND" to include. If those values appear inside of a "database" group, they are
                explicitly set to "include". If they appear elsewhere in a conditional attribute
                (such as <codeph>product="dbFIRST"</codeph> or
                <codeph>platform="dbSECOND"</codeph>), this rule does not apply.</li>
              <li>The final prop element sets the database value "newDB" to exclude. If that value
                appears inside of a database group, it is explicitly set to "exclude". If it appears
                in any other group or attribute, this rule does not apply.</li>
            </ul></p>
          <p>Remember that with groups, if all values inside of a single group evaluate to
            "exclude", that is equivalent to an entire attribute evaluating to "exclude", which
            results in the removal of the content. Using this sample DITAVAL:<ul>
              <li><codeph>&lt;p product="appserver"></codeph> is filtered out, because this value is
                excluded.</li>
              <li><codeph>&lt;p product="appserver(A B)"></codeph> is filtered out, because there is
                no explicit rule for A or B, and values in the "appserver" group inside of @product
                default to exclude.</li>
              <li><codeph>&lt;p product="appserver(A B mySERVER)"></codeph> is included, because
                product="mySERVER" evaluates to "include", which means the entire group evaluates to
                "include".</li>
              <li><codeph>&lt;p product="newDB"></codeph> is included, because no rule in the
                DITAVAL applies, so the "newDB" token defaults to "include".</li>
              <li><codeph>&lt;p product="database(newDB)"></codeph> is filtered out, because the
                token "newDB" is excluded when found in the database group.</li>
              <li><codeph>&lt;p product="database(dbFIRST dbSECOND newDB)"></codeph> is included,
                because both "dbFIRST" and "dbSECOND" are included, so the group evaluates to
                include.</li>
              <li><codeph>&lt;p product="database(newDB) appserver(mySERVER)"></codeph> is filtered
                out, because the token "newDB" is excluded when found in the database group. The
                entire "database" group on this paragraph evaluates to "exclude", so the element is
                excluded, regardless of how the "appserver" group evaluates.</li>
            </ul></p>
        </fig>
      </section>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <concept id="conrefcondproc" conref="condproc.dita#condproc">
  <title/>
  </concept>
</dita>
