<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN"
 "reference.dtd">
<reference id="IssueNumber00" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>DITA 1.3 proposed feature 13117</title>
<shortdesc>Allow &lt;xref> within &lt;shortdesc>.</shortdesc>
<refbody>
<section><title>Date and version information</title><p>Include the following information:<ul>
     <li>Date completed: 1 Oct 2012</li>
     <li>Champion: Eliot Kimber</li>
     <li>Email: <xref
          href="https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/dita/email/archives/201209/msg00008.html"
          format="html"
          scope="external">https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/dita/email/archives/201209/msg00008.html</xref></li>
    </ul></p></section>
<section>
      <title>Original requirement</title>
      <p>Some users have a need for cross references within short descriptions.
        As short descriptions may include elements that act as links as of DITA
        1.2, there is no reason to disallow &lt;xref>, as processors must
        already handle links within short descriptions.</p>
    </section>
<section><title>Use cases</title><p>Use cases include:<ul
        id="ul_fyt_wm5_sh">
        <li>A topic whose only content is a short description that points to
          another topic as the real source of information for some purpose.</li>
        <li>A topic where the first sentence of the first paragraph happens to
          include a cross reference and needs to be the short description.</li>
        </ul></p></section>
<section><title>Benefits</title><p>This change ensures that the content model of &lt;shortdesc> is not over
        constrained, allowing authors who need to have a cross reference in a
        short description to do so without having to wrap the cross reference in
        another element (e.g., &lt;ph>).</p></section>
<section><title>Costs</title><p>
        <ul>
          <li>Maintainers of the DTDs and XSDs:<ul
            id="ul_hh4_cvt_ng">
            <li>Add &lt;xref> the content model of &lt;shortdesc>.</li>
            </ul></li>
          <li>Editors of the DITA specification:<ul>
            <li>How many new topics will be required?<ul
              id="ul_g1q_jyt_ng">
              <li>No new topics</li>
              </ul></li>
            <li>How many existing topics will need to be edited?<ul
              id="ul_jkk_kyt_ng">
              <li>The generated content model description for &lt;shortdesc>
                will reflect the addition of &lt;xref>.</li>
              </ul></li>
            <li>Will the feature require substantial changes to the information
              architecture of the DITA specification?<ul
              id="ul_ezr_ryt_ng">
              <li>The feature does not represent a substantial change to the
                architecture. </li>
              </ul></li>
            </ul></li>
          <li>Vendors of tools:<ul
            id="ul_g4z_vyt_ng">
            <li>XML editors will need to allow editing of the updated content
              models.</li>
            <li>Processors may need to provide additional rules for handling
              cross references within short descriptions when using the short
              description content to produce text for use in contexts where a
              navigable cross reference would not be possible or meaningful,
              such as tooltips in HTML.</li>
            </ul></li>
          <li>DITA community-at-large. Will this feature add to the perception
            that DITA is becoming too complex? <ul
            id="ul_lsq_yyt_ng">
            <li>This change should not add to the perception of complexity for
              authors.</li>
            </ul></li>
        </ul>
      </p></section>
<section><title>Technical requirements</title><p>Update the existing content models as described above under "costs".</p>
      <p>Processors will need to provide appropriate ways to render cross
        references within short descriptions when the short description text is
        used in contexts where a navigable cross reference would not be possible
        or meaningful. Processors should always reflect appropriate text for the
        cross reference even if the cross reference cannot be rendered as a
        navigable hyperlink in a particular context.</p></section>
<section><title>Examples</title><p>Short description as a redirection:</p>
      <codeblock>&lt;topic id="topic_lxq_jnf_5g">
  &lt;title>Old Concept Title&lt;/title>
  &lt;shortdesc>Old concept is now new concept. See 
&lt;xref keyref="new-concept"/>.&lt;/shortdesc> 
  ....
&lt;/topic></codeblock></section>
</refbody>
</reference><?Pub Caret -3?>
<?Pub *0000003625?>
