<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN"
"reference.dtd">
<reference id="Feature13086_Stage3" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Stage 3 proposal: Feature 13086</title>
<shortdesc>Proposal to add a new element to support a
troubleshooting statement after the &lt;stepresult> element
in a &lt;step> element in a task topic.</shortdesc>
<refbody>
<section><title>Champion</title><p>DITA Technical Communications
Subcommittee.</p></section>
<section><title>Tracking information</title>    
<simpletable frame="all" relcolwidth="1.03* 1.0* 1.78*">
<sthead>
<stentry>Event</stentry>
<stentry>Date</stentry>
<stentry>Links</stentry>
</sthead>
<strow>
<stentry>Stage 1 proposal accepted</stentry>
<stentry>17 January 2012</stentry>
<stentry><xref scope="external" href="https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/dita/download.php/44896/minutes20120117.txt">https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/dita/download.php/44896/minutes20120117.txt</xref></stentry>
</strow>
<strow>
<stentry>Stage 2 proposal submitted</stentry>
<stentry>19 June 2012</stentry>
<stentry><xref scope="external" href="https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/dita-techcomm/download.php/46340/StepTroubleshootingProposal13086.html">https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/dita-techcomm/download.php/46340/StepTroubleshootingProposal13086.html</xref></stentry>
</strow>
<strow>
<stentry>Stage 2 proposal discussed</stentry>
<stentry>19 June 2012</stentry>
<stentry><xref scope="external" href="https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/dita/download.php/46335/minutes20120619.txt">https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/dita/download.php/46335/minutes20120619.txt</xref></stentry>
</strow>
<strow>
<stentry>Stage 2 proposal approved</stentry>
<stentry>26 June 2012</stentry>
<stentry><xref scope="external" href="https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/dita/download.php/46405/minutes-2012jun26.txt">https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/dita/download.php/46405/minutes-2012jun26.txt</xref></stentry>
</strow>
<strow>
<stentry>Stage 3 proposal submitted to reviewers</stentry>
<stentry/>
  <stentry>Thilo Buchholtz, Stan Doherty, Kris Eberlein, JoAnn Hackos, Eliot Kimber</stentry>
</strow>
<strow>
<stentry>Stage 3 proposal (this document) submitted</stentry>
<stentry/>
<stentry/>
</strow>
</simpletable></section>
<section><title>Approved technical requirements</title><p>Add troubleshooting element
to a step: There is often a need to include a troubleshooting statement
in a task step, following the &lt;stepresult> element. The purpose of this
"trouble" statement is to help the reader resolve any problems that may
arise should their step result not match the result stated in the
&lt;stepresult> section of the step.</p></section>
<section><title>Use cases</title><p>There is often a need to include a
troubleshooting statement in a task step, following the &lt;stepresult> element.
The purpose of this "trouble" statement is to help the reader resolve
any problems that may arise should their step result not match the
result stated in the &lt;stepresult> section of the step. This use case
helps the reader resolve a problem encountered while performing a
specific step.</p></section>
<section><title>Benefits</title><ul>
<li>This addition will benefit writers who want to provide important
troubleshooting information within a step right that the point of need
by the users</li>
<li>This enhancement will have a significant impact because key
troubleshooting information will be called out and not be missed by
users</li>
<li>Many people will probably benefit from this feature</li>
<li>This feature&#x2019;s utility will be comparable to that realized by
the other semantic sub-elements available under step</li>
</ul></section>
<section><title>Dependencies or interrelated proposals</title><p>This change to &lt;step> does not depend
on, or interact with, any other submitted proposals.
However, three other proposals relating to troubleshooting semantics are also being
considered. The Technical Communication Subcommittee will provide the text explaining the
interrelationships of these elements and attributes with the set of three proposals.</p><dl
compact="no">
<dlentry>
<dt>13096</dt>
<dd>Troubleshooting section within &lt;taskbody>. Status: phase 3</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>13097</dt>
<dd>Troubleshooting topic. Status: phase 2</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>13098</dt>
<dd>Add an attribute value to the &lt;note> element's type attribute
to distinguish troubleshooting information. Status: phase 3</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></section>
<section><title>Modified DTDs</title>
<p>A new element named &lt;steptroubleshooting> will follow the %lt;stepresult> element as the optional last child of the &lt;step> element.
The &lt;steptroubleshooting> element will not be availble in any other context. For example, the &lt;steptroubleshooting> will
not be available in the &lt;substep> element or in the &lt;stepxmp> element. 
The only DTD file affected is dtd.mod under technicalContent/dtd.</p>
<p>See 
<xref href="../Common/RevisedTaskModToImplement13086and13096.dita#RevisedTaskModToImplement13086and13096"
>Modifications to task.mod</xref> for all necessary DTD changes.</p></section>
<section><title>Modified specification documentation</title>
<p>The specification impact is small.</p><simpletable
relcolwidth="20* 40* 40*">
<sthead>
<stentry>Location</stentry>
<stentry>Text in 1.2</stentry>
<stentry>Proposed changes for 1.3</stentry>
</sthead>
<strow>
<stentry>3.2.2.8 ditabase, task, machineryTask</stentry>
<stentry>( (note or hazardstatement) (any number) then cmd then (choices or choicetable or info or itemgroup or stepxmp or substeps or tutorialinfo) (any number) then (stepresult) (optional) )</stentry>
<stentry>( (note or hazardstatement) (any number) then cmd then (choices or choicetable or info or itemgroup or stepxmp or substeps or tutorialinfo) (any number) then (stepresult) (optional)<b> then (steptroubleshooting) (optional)</b> )</stentry>
</strow>
<strow>
<stentry>3.2.2.8 learningContent</stentry>
<stentry>( (note or lcInstructornote) (any number) then cmd then (choices or choicetable or info or itemgroup or stepxmp or substeps or tutorialinfo) (any number) then (stepresult) (optional)) </stentry>
<stentry>( (note or lcInstructornote) (any number) then cmd then (choices or choicetable or info or itemgroup or stepxmp or substeps or tutorialinfo) (any number) then (stepresult) (optional)<b> then (steptroubleshoot) (optional)</b> ) </stentry>
</strow>
<strow>
<stentry>3.2.2.13 ditabase, task, machineryTask</stentry>
<stentry>( (note or hazardstatement) (any number) then cmd then (info or itemgroup or stepxmp or tutorialinfo) (any number) then (stepresult) (optional) )</stentry>
<stentry>( (note or hazardstatement) (any number) then cmd then (info or itemgroup or stepxmp or tutorialinfo) (any number) then (stepresult) (optional)<b> then (steptroubleshooting) (optional)</b> )</stentry>
</strow>
<strow>
<stentry>3.2.2.13 learningContent</stentry>
<stentry>( (note or lcInstructornote) (any number) then cmd then (info or itemgroup or stepxmp or tutorialinfo) (any number) then (stepresult) (optional) ) </stentry>
<stentry>( (note or lcInstructornote) (any number) then cmd then (info or itemgroup or stepxmp or tutorialinfo) (any number) then (stepresult) (optional)<b> then (steptroubleshoot) (optional)</b> ) </stentry>
</strow>
<strow><stentry>3.2.2.24.5 (new topic)</stentry>
<stentry>N/A</stentry>
<stentry>Add new topic <xref href="../langref/steptroubleshooting.dita#steptroubleshooting"/></stentry>
</strow>
<strow><stentry>commonNavLibraryTable.dita</stentry>
<stentry>N/A</stentry>
<stentry>Add new reference topic "contentmodel-steptroubleshooting"</stentry></strow>
</simpletable></section>
</refbody>
</reference>