<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
  <topic id="topic_aqh_5zt_3h">
    <title>Stage 3 proposal: Feature #13060</title>
    <shortdesc>Allow context sensitive Help metadata to be defined in topics and maps by expanding
      the <synph>resourceid</synph> element's attribute set.</shortdesc>
    <body>
      <section>
        <title>Champion</title>
        <p>This proposal was developed and championed by the DITA Help Subcommittee, under the
          direction of Tony Self and Stan Doherty.</p>
      </section>
      <section>
        <title>Tracking information</title>
        <simpletable frame="all" relcolwidth="1.0* 1.0* 1.0*">
          <sthead>
            <stentry>Event</stentry>
            <stentry>Date</stentry>
            <stentry>Links</stentry>
          </sthead>
          <strow>
            <stentry>Stage 1 proposal accepted</stentry>
            <stentry>2 August 2011</stentry>
            <stentry><xref href="https://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/dita/201108/msg00004.html"
                format="html" scope="external">Minutes</xref></stentry>
          </strow>
          <strow>
            <stentry>Stage 2 proposal submitted</stentry>
            <stentry>26 August 2013</stentry>
            <stentry><xref
                href="https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/dita/download.php/50453/dita-proposal-csh_13060.html"
                format="html" scope="external">HTML</xref>, <xref
                href="https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/dita/download.php/50454/dita-proposal-csh_13060.dita"
                scope="external" format="html">DITA</xref></stentry>
          </strow>
          <strow>
            <stentry>Stage 2 proposal discussed</stentry>
            <stentry>27 August 2013</stentry>
            <stentry><xref
                href="https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/dita/download.php/50502/minutes20130827.txt"
                format="txt" scope="external">Minutes</xref></stentry>
          </strow>
          <strow>
            <stentry>Stage 2 proposal approved</stentry>
            <stentry>3 September 2013</stentry>
            <stentry><xref
                href="https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/dita/download.php/50570/minutes20130903.txt"
                format="txt" scope="external">Minutes</xref></stentry>
          </strow>
          <strow>
            <stentry>Stage 3 proposal submitted to reviewers</stentry>
            <stentry>17 October 2013</stentry>
            <stentry>DHSC</stentry>
          </strow>
          <strow>
            <stentry>Stage 3 proposal (this document) submitted</stentry>
            <stentry/>
            <stentry/>
          </strow>
        </simpletable>
      </section>
      <section>
        <title>Approved technical requirements</title>
        <p>The <synph>resourceid</synph> element would need to be modified in the DTD/Schema files
          to incorporate new attributes of <synph>context-string</synph>,
            <synph>source-priority</synph>, and <synph>ua-windowref</synph>. The <synph>data</synph>
          and <synph>data-about</synph> elements should also be allowed within
            <synph>resourceid</synph>. A related new <synph>ditamap</synph> element defining the
          window referenced in the <synph>ua-windowref</synph> attribute would be required (see
          Proposal 13061).</p>
      </section>
      <section><title>Dependencies or interrelated proposals</title>This proposal is interrelated to
        Proposal 13061 (window specifications). This Proposal is also related to Proposal 13008,
        which proposes one of the changes incorporated in this Proposal.</section>
      <section>
        <title>Containment</title>
        <simpletable frame="all" relcolwidth="1.0* 1.0*" id="simpletable_btd_sxd_1m">
          <sthead>
            <stentry>Container(s)</stentry>
            <stentry>Application</stentry>
          </sthead>
          <strow>
            <stentry>map/topicmeta/resourceid</stentry>
            <stentry>Not applicable</stentry>
          </strow>
          <strow>
            <stentry>map/topicref/topicmeta/resourceid</stentry>
            <stentry>The referenced topic</stentry>
          </strow>
          <strow>
            <stentry>topic/topicmeta/resourceid</stentry>
            <stentry>The topic</stentry>
          </strow>
          <strow>
            <stentry>map/mapref/resourceid</stentry>
            <stentry>Not applicable</stentry>
          </strow>
        </simpletable>
      </section>
      <section>
        <title>Modified DTDs</title>
        <p>Changes impact metaDecl.mod (and equivalent Schema file). Modified lines in bold:</p>
        <codeblock><b>&lt;!ENTITY % resourceid.content 
                "(%data.elements.incl;)*"
> 
</b>
&lt;!ENTITY % resourceid.attributes
                "%select-atts;
                 %localization-atts;
                 id
                    CDATA
                            #IMPLIED
                 %conref-atts;
                 appname
                     CDATA
                            #IMPLIED
                 appid
                     CDATA
                            #IMPLIED
<b>                ua-context-string
                     CDATA
                            #IMPLIED
                 ua-source-priority
                     (topic-and-map | 
                      topic-only | 
                      map-only | 
                      map-takes-priority | 
                      topic-takes-priority | 
                      -dita-use-conref-target)
                            topic-and-map
                 ua-windowref 
                     CDATA
                            #IMPLIED</b>"
  >
</codeblock>
      </section>
      <section>
        <title>Modified specification documentation</title>
        <p>The specification changes for this proposal affect only one topic in the Specification:
            <xref
            href="http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/v1.2/os/spec/langref/resourceid.html#resourceid"
            format="html" scope="external">3.1.3.1.22 resourceid</xref>. The table below shows the
          changes required in the Specification in addition to those changes already proposed in
          Proposal 13008.</p>
        <table id="table_d2j_gbn_vl">
          <tgroup cols="4">
            <colspec colnum="1" colname="col1"/>
            <colspec colnum="2" colname="col2"/>
            <colspec colnum="3" colname="col3"/>
            <colspec colnum="4" colname="col4"/>
            <thead>
              <row>
                <entry id="d61e121">Location</entry>
                <entry id="d61e123">Text in 1.2</entry>
                <entry id="d61e125">Proposed changes for related Proposal 13008</entry>
                <entry>Proposed additions to Proposal 13008 changes</entry>
              </row>
            </thead>
            <tbody>
              <row>
                <entry>Short description and introductory text</entry>
                <entry>
                  <p>The <systemoutput>&lt;resourceid&gt;</systemoutput> element provides an
                    identifier for applications that require them in a particular format, when the
                    normal id attribute of the topic cannot be used.</p>
                  <p>Each resourceid entry should be unique. While DITA only requires IDs to be
                    unique within a single topic or map, applications using the resourceid will
                    generally require IDs to be universally unique or unique within a given
                    collection of topics.</p>
                </entry>
                <entry>
                  <p>The <systemoutput>&lt;resourceid&gt;</systemoutput> element provides an
                    identifier for applications that must use their own identifier scheme, such as
                    context-sensitive help systems and databases.</p>
                  <p>Multiple <synph>appid</synph> values may be associated with a single
                      <synph>appname</synph> value, and multiple <synph>appname</synph> values may
                    be associated with a single <synph>appid </synph>value. Because the values for
                    the <synph>appid</synph> and <synph>appname</synph> attributes work in
                    combination to specify a specific ID for a specific application, each
                    combination of values for the <synph>appid</synph> and <synph>appname</synph>
                    attributes <i>should</i> be unique. </p>
                  <p>Versions of DITA before 1.3 used the <synph>id</synph> attribute on the
                      <systemoutput>&lt;resourceid&gt;</systemoutput> element to specify an ID for
                    an external application. This use of the <synph>id</synph> attribute is
                    deprecated in favor of using the <synph>appid</synph> attribute.</p>
                </entry>
                <entry/>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><b>Example</b> section</entry>
                <entry>
                  <codeblock>&lt;prolog&gt;   &lt;resourceid id="sqlid00375"
                      appname="dbaccess"/&gt; &lt;/prolog&gt;</codeblock>
                </entry>
                <entry><p>In the following example, a topic is referenced by three
                    applications.</p><codeblock>&lt;prolog>
   &lt;resourceid appid="sqlid00375" appname="dbaccess"/>
   &lt;resourceid appid="sample" appname="otherApp1"/>
   &lt;resourceid appid="sample" appname="otherApp2"/>
&lt;/prolog></codeblock><p>A
                    database application with a value of "dbaccess" for the <synph>appname</synph>
                    attribute references the topic using the ID "sqlid00375". Two other applications
                    use the ID "sample"; differing values for the <synph>appname</synph> attribute
                    distinguish between these two applications and the &lt;resourceid> elements that
                    are associated with them.</p>If this topic is reused by another author, that
                  author may associate additional <synph>&lt;resourceid></synph> elements with the
                  topic by placing them in the map. For example, the following entry in the
                    <synph>&lt;topicmeta></synph> indicates that (in addition to the values already
                  specified in the topic), an application with the value of "Author-B-App"
                  references the topic using the ID
                  "FunNewId":<codeblock>&lt;topicref href="sample.dita">
  &lt;topicmeta>
     &lt;navtitle>Sample: adding a resourceid externally&lt;/navtitle>
     &lt;resourceid appname="Author-B-App" appid="FunNewId"/>
  &lt;/topicmeta&gt;
&lt;/topicref></codeblock></entry>
                <entry>
                  <p>In the following example, user assistance context hooks are being applied to
                    three topics. The second topic has two hooks for the same topic.</p>
                  <codeblock>&lt;map title="Widget Help">
 &lt;topicref href="file_ops.dita" type="concept">
   &lt;topicref href="saving.dita" type="task">
     &lt;topicmeta>
     <b>&lt;resourceid id="ab12" appname="ua" appid="1234" ua-context-string="idh_filesave"
     ua-source-priority="topic-only" /></b>
     &lt;/topicmeta>
   &lt;/topicref>
   &lt;topicref href="deleting.dita" type="task">
     &lt;topicmeta>
      <b>&lt;resourceid id="ab34" appname="ua" 
           appid="2345" ua-context-string="idh_filedelete" /&gt;</b>
      <b>&lt;resourceid id="ab56" appname="ua" 
           appid="6789" ua-context-string="idh_filekill" /&gt;</b>
     &lt;topicmeta>
   &lt;/topicref>
   &lt;topicref href="editing.dita" type="task">
     &lt;topicmeta>
       <b>&lt;resourceid id="ab78" appname="ua" 
            appid="5432" ua-context-string="idh_fileedit" ua-windowref="csh"  /&gt;</b>
     &lt;topicmeta>
   &lt;/topicref>
&lt;/topicref>
&lt;/map></codeblock>
                  <p>In the following example, a user assistance context hook, made up of a context
                    ID (appid) and a context string (ua-context-string) pair, is defined in the
                    prolog of a task topic. A user assistance window is also referenced for this
                    topic. </p>
                  <codeblock>&lt;task id="fedt">
 &lt;title>Editing a File&lt;/title>
 &lt;prolog>
   <b>&lt;resourceid id="cd12" appname="ua" 
         appid="5432" ua-context-string="idh_fileedit" ua-windowref="csh" /></b>
 &lt;/prolog>
 &lt;taskbody>
  &lt;context>After you have created a new file, you can edit it.&lt;/context> 
  &lt;steps>
   &lt;step>&lt;cmd>Open...&lt;/cmd>&lt;/step>
   &lt;step>&lt;cmd>Edit...&lt;/cmd>&lt;/step>
   &lt;step>&lt;cmd>Save...&lt;/cmd>&lt;/step>
  &lt;/steps>
 &lt;/taskbody>
&lt;/task></codeblock>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><b>Contains</b> section </entry>
                <entry/>
                <entry/>
                <entry>For all Doctypes, Content Model will
                  be:<codeblock>(data or data-about) (any number)</codeblock>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><synph>id</synph> attribute definition</entry>
                <entry>
                  <ul id="ul_z2j_gbn_vl">
                    <li>Description: "The value used by a specific application to identify the
                      topic."</li>
                    <li>Default Value: "#REQUIRED"</li>
                    <li>Required?: "Yes"</li>
                  </ul>
                </entry>
                <entry>
                  <ul id="ul_cfj_gbn_vl">
                    <li>Description: conref the description of <synph>id</synph> used by other
                      elements; followed by another paragraph: "Prior to DITA 1.3, this attribute
                      specified a value used by a specific application to identify the topic. That
                      usage is deprecated in favor of using the <synph>appid</synph>
                      attribute."</li>
                    <li>Default Value: "#IMPLIED"</li>
                    <li>Required?: "No"</li>
                  </ul>
                </entry>
                <entry/>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><synph>appname</synph> attribute</entry>
                <entry>Contains the name of the application that will use the resource id to
                  identify the topic.</entry>
                <entry>A name for the external application that references the topic.</entry>
                <entry/>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><synph>appid</synph> attribute definition</entry>
                <entry>n/a</entry>
                <entry>
                  <ul id="ul_ffj_gbn_vl">
                    <li>Description: "An ID used by an application to identify the topic."</li>
                    <li>Data Type: CDATA</li>
                    <li>Default Value: "#IMPLIED"</li>
                    <li>Required?: "No"</li>
                  </ul>
                </entry>
                <entry/>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><synph>ua-context-string</synph> attribute </entry>
                <entry>n/a</entry>
                <entry/>
                <entry>
                  <ul id="ul_j1v_lcn_vl">
                    <li>Description: Contains the value of a user assistance (Help) context-string
                      used to identify the topic.</li>
                    <li>Data Type: CDATA</li>
                    <li>Default Value: "#IMPLIED"</li>
                    <li>Required?: "No"</li>
                  </ul>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><synph>ua-source-priority</synph> attribute</entry>
                <entry>n/a</entry>
                <entry/>
                <entry>
                  <ul id="ul_usw_lcn_vl">
                    <li>Description: Contains a value which indicates the precedence of context
                      hooks in the map and context hooks in the topic. (This attribute is only valid
                      when used within a <synph>topicref</synph> in a <synph>map</synph>.)</li>
                    <li>Data Type: (topic-and-map | topic-only | map-only | map-takes-priority |
                      topic-takes-priority | -dita-use-conref-target)</li>
                    <li>Default Value: topic-and-map</li>
                    <li>Required?: "No"</li>
                  </ul>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry><synph>ua-windowref</synph> attribute</entry>
                <entry>n/a</entry>
                <entry/>
                <entry>
                  <ul id="ul_u3z_lcn_vl">
                    <li>Description: Contains the name of the ua-window element which will be used
                      to display this topic when called from a Help API.</li>
                    <li>Data Type: CDATA</li>
                    <li>Default Value: "#IMPLIED"</li>
                    <li>Required?: "No"</li>
                  </ul>
                </entry>
              </row>
            </tbody>
          </tgroup>
        </table>
        <p>The consolidated Attributes section would therefore be as in the following table.</p>
        <simpletable id="navref_attr" relcolwidth="2* 3* 1* 1* 1*">
          <sthead>
            <stentry>Name</stentry>
            <stentry>Description</stentry>
            <stentry>Data Type</stentry>
            <stentry>Default Value</stentry>
            <stentry>Required?</stentry>
          </sthead>
          <strow>
            <stentry>id</stentry>
            <stentry>
              <p>An anchor point. This ID is the target for references by href and conref attributes
                and for external applications that refer to DITA content. See ID attribute in the
                Architectural Specification for more details.</p>
              <p>Prior to DITA 1.3, this attribute specified a value used by a specific application
                to identify the topic. That usage is deprecated in favor of using the appid
                attribute.</p>
            </stentry>
            <stentry>NMTOKEN</stentry>
            <stentry>#IMPLIED</stentry>
            <stentry>No</stentry>
          </strow>
          <strow>
            <stentry>appname</stentry>
            <stentry>A name for the external application that references the topic.</stentry>
            <stentry>CDATA</stentry>
            <stentry>#IMPLIED</stentry>
            <stentry>Yes</stentry>
          </strow>
          <strow>
            <stentry>appid</stentry>
            <stentry>An ID used by an application to identify the topic.</stentry>
            <stentry>CDATA</stentry>
            <stentry>#IMPLIED</stentry>
            <stentry>No</stentry>
          </strow>
          <strow>
            <stentry>ua-context-string</stentry>
            <stentry>Contains the value of a user assistance (Help) context-string used to identify
              the topic.</stentry>
            <stentry>CDATA</stentry>
            <stentry>#IMPLIED</stentry>
            <stentry>No</stentry>
          </strow>
          <strow>
            <stentry>ua-source-priority</stentry>
            <stentry>Contains a value which indicates the precedence of context hooks in the map and
              context hooks in the topic. (This usage is defined when the attribute is used on
              resourceid within a DITA map; using this attribute on resourceid within a topic is
              undefined and reserved for future use.) </stentry>
            <stentry>(topic-and-map | topic-only | map-only | map-takes-priority |
              topic-takes-priority | -dita-use-conref-target)</stentry>
            <stentry>topic-and-map</stentry>
            <stentry>No</stentry>
          </strow>
          <strow>
            <stentry>ua-windowref</stentry>
            <stentry>Contains the name of the ua-window element which will be used to display this
              topic when called from a Help API.</stentry>
            <stentry>CDATA</stentry>
            <stentry>#IMPLIED</stentry>
            <stentry>No</stentry>
          </strow>
          <strow>
            <stentry>%select-atts; attributes</stentry>
            <stentry/>
            <stentry/>
            <stentry/>
            <stentry/>
          </strow>
          <strow>
            <stentry>%localization-atts; attributes</stentry>
            <stentry/>
            <stentry/>
            <stentry/>
            <stentry/>
          </strow>
          <strow>
            <stentry>%global-atts; attributes</stentry>
            <stentry/>
            <stentry/>
            <stentry/>
            <stentry/>
          </strow>
          <strow>
            <stentry>class</stentry>
            <stentry/>
            <stentry/>
            <stentry/>
            <stentry/>
          </strow>
        </simpletable>
      </section>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <concept id="concept_aqh_5zt_3h" rev="DITA1.3 proposal-13060">
    <title>New architectural specification topic (after 2.1.3.8) - Help systems and other User
      Assistance</title>
    <shortdesc>Help systems for software applications, and other types of User Assistance content
      such as <term>tooltips</term>, use context strings and context identifiers as a means to
      associate a specific Help topic with a part of the software application. Although such
        <term>context hooks</term> differ across applications, and across Help platforms, they can
      always be considered as metadata. Including context hook metadata in the
        &lt;<synph>resourceid</synph>> element in the DITA map (topicref) or in the topic metadata
      allows processors to generate the header, map, alias and other types of support files required
      to integrate the user assistance with the application. Some user assistance topics may be
      required to display in a specific named window or viewport, and this windowing metadata can be
      defined in the DITA map within the &lt;<synph>ua-window</synph>> element.</shortdesc>
    <conbody>
      <p>Software application user interfaces can be linked to user assistance information (such as
        Help systems and <term>tooltips</term>) using <term>context hooks</term>. These hooks are
        simply identifiers that associate a part of the user interface with the location of a Help
        topic. Context hooks are sometimes direct links to URLs, but are more often indirect links
        that use numeric context identifiers and/or context strings in conjunction with an
        intermediary mapping file that associates the context hook with the location of the Help
        topic. A similar mapping file is used in the software application to associate the user
        interface controls with the context hook. A Help <term>API (Application Programming
          Interface)</term> is typically used to simplify the process for both software developer
        and Help author.The mapping files used to associate user interface controls and context
        hooks, and context hooks and Help topics, are known as header files, map files, or alias
        files, depending upon the Help API.</p>
      <p>Context identifiers can define one-to-one relationships with user interface controls and
        topics, or one-to-many relationship (one Help topic is associated with many user interface
        controls).</p>
      <p>In some Help systems, information topics may be required to display in a specifically sized
        or featured window. For example, a Help topic may need to be displayed immediately adjacent
        to the user interface control it supports, in a window of a specific size that always
        remains on top regardless of the focus within the operating system. </p>
      <p>Context hook information can be defined within DITA topics and/or within DITA maps, as
        attributes of the &lt;<synph>resourceid</synph>> element.</p>
      <p>The attributes that are used for context hooks are: <dl>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>@<synph>appid</synph></dt>
            <dd>An ID used by an application to identify the topic.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>@<synph>ua-context-string</synph></dt>
            <dd>Contains the value of a user assistance (Help) context-string used to identify the
              topic.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>@<synph>ua-source-priority</synph></dt>
            <dd>Contains a value which indicates the precedence of context hooks in the map and
              context hooks in the topic. (This usage is defined when the attribute is used on
                <synph>resourceid</synph> within a DITA map; using this attribute on
                <synph>resourceid</synph> within a topic is undefined and reserved for future use.) </dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>@<synph>ua-windowref</synph></dt>
            <dd>Contains the name of the window to be used to display the Help topic, with that
              window's characteristics separately defined in a &lt;<synph>ua-window</synph>> element
              in the DITA map.</dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl></p>
      <p>The &lt;<synph>ua-window</synph>> element provides attributes of @<synph>top</synph>,
          @<synph>left</synph>, @<synph>height</synph>, @<synph>width</synph>,
          @<synph>on-top</synph>, @<synph>features</synph>, @<synph>relative</synph>, and
          @<synph>full-screen</synph>.</p>
      <p>To avoid problems where context hooks defined in the DITA map potentially conflict with
        those defined in the topics, a @<synph>ua-source-priority</synph> attribute can be used to
        indicate how these potential conflicts should be resolved. This attribute can only be
        defined in the DITA map.</p>
      <p>Context hook and windowing information is ignored if the processor (the software producing
        the output Help or user assistance files) does not support this metadata. </p>
    </conbody>
  </concept>
</dita>
