<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN"
 "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_dr5_htt_hj">
<title>Troubleshooting information</title>
<shortdesc>Troubleshooting information is invaluable to technical
content users because it provides advice to correct problems with
task performance.</shortdesc>
<conbody>
<p>User studies have indicated that users find troubleshooting information
invaluable because they frequently access technical information only
when they have encountered a problem in performing a task.</p>
<p>The DITA troubleshooting elements added in DITA 1.3 encourage authors
to provide troubleshooting information directly within a task, at
the point of need, and to label the troubleshooting information appropriately.
Minimalism research indicates that users are most likely to read troubleshooting
information if it is visibly labeled. In the examples here, we use
the word &lt;i>Trouble?&lt;i> as a possible symbol for troubleshooting.
A symbol may be added through a stylesheet.</p>
<p>Troubleshooting information may be added to an individual step
in a DITA Task and may be added after the steps are completed. Troubleshooting
information may also be added in any topic type as an attribute on
the &lt;note> element. The examples below illustrate the three options.</p>
<section> <title>Step troubleshooting</title> <p>Troubleshooting information
may be added following a step in a procedure if it is likely that
the user will encounter a problem in performing the step. </p><?Pub Caret -1?><p>When used, the &lt;steptroubleshooting>
element must be the last element in its containing &lt;step> element.
In the simplest case, a &lt;step> element begins with a required &lt;cmd>
element immediately followed by the &lt;steptroubleshooting> element.
Typically, other elements such as &lt;info> or &lt;stepresult> will
be used in between the &lt;cmd> and &lt;steptroubleshooting> elements.</p
><p>The &lt;steptroubleshooting> element may not be inserted in the
&lt;substeps> element or in other subelements of the &lt;step> element.</p
> <p>The first example shows troubleshooting information added to
a step. The second example shows the troubleshooting information following
a step result.</p>
 <codeblock>&lt;task>
         .
         .
         .
       &lt;steps>
             &lt;step>&lt;cmd>Select &lt;uicontrol>Shut Down&lt;/uicontrol> from the &lt;uicontrol>File&lt;/uicontrol> Menu.&lt;/cmd>
              &lt;steptroubleshooting>Trouble? If a problem with the computer prevents you from choosing Shut Down&#x2014;for example,
        if the computer &#x201c;freezes&#x201d; so that the pointer does not respond to the trackpad&#x2014;you can turn off the computer by holding down the Control, Option, Command, and Power On
        keys at the same time.&lt;/steptroubleshooting>&lt;/step>
       &lt;/steps>
       &lt;/task></codeblock>    <codeblock>&lt;task>
         .
         .
         .
       &lt;steps>
         .
         .
         .
           &lt;step>&lt;cmd>Select the element for which you want to assign a conditional-processing
                    attribute, and, in the &lt;wintitle>Attributes&lt;/wintitle> window, select the
                    conditional-processing attribute.&lt;/cmd>
                &lt;stepresult>The permissible values for the attribute are displayed in a drop-down
                    list.&lt;/stepresult>
                &lt;steptroubleshooting>If the list of controlled values is not displayed, ensure that the 
                   subjectScheme map is opened in the &lt;wintitle>DITA Maps Manager&lt;/wintitle> window.&lt;/steptroubleshooting>
            &lt;/step></codeblock> </section>
<section> <title>Task troubleshooting</title><p>Troubleshooting information may be added after the completion of a task to assist the user in
        correcting a problem in completing the task.</p><p>Typically, the optional &lt;tasktroubleshooting> element
will follow a &lt;result> element after the task&#x2019;s &lt;steps>
element. However, use of the &lt;result> element is optional. The
&lt;example> and the &lt;postreq> elements may optionally follow the
&lt;tasktroubleshooting> element.</p>    <codeblock>&lt;task>
         .
         .
         .
       &lt;steps>
          .
          .
          .
          &lt;step>&lt;cmd>When the fast blinking stops, press &lt;uicontrol>small espresso&lt;/uicontrol>.&lt;/cmd>
       &lt;/steps>
       &lt;tasktroubleshooting>Trouble? If the &lt;uicontrol>small espresso&lt;/uicontrol> button is not lit, recycle the unit by turning the external &lt;uicontrol>Power&lt;/uicontrol> off and on.&lt;/tasktroubleshooting>
       &lt;/task></codeblock>   </section>
<section> <title>Troubleshooting note</title><p>At times it is useful to add a &lt;note> element that deals with a potential problem that a user
        might encounter in understanding a concept, executing a task, or referring to factual
        information. The &lt;note> element has a required @type attribute with a list of selectable
        values such as caution, tip, and note. A value named <q>trouble</q> has been added to this
        list of types. When <q>trouble</q> has been assigned to @type, stylesheets can use that as a
        cue to insert a word or a symbol that indicates the note contains troubleshooting
        information.</p>
   <codeblock>&lt;concept>
         .
         .
         .
       &lt;p>If you expose your camera to sudden changes in temperature or humidity, you may experience some condensation in the camera. You should avoid the possibility of condensation because it may result in soil on the lens or the monitor, cause mold, or damage the camera.
       &lt;note type="trouble"/>If you do get condensation, turn off the camera and wait about two hours before using it. Once the camera adjusts to the surrounding temperature, the fogging will clear naturally.&lt;/note></codeblock
> </section>
</conbody>
</concept>