<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN"
 "reference.dtd">
<reference id="IssueNumber13078" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>DITA 1.3 proposed feature #13078</title>
<shortdesc>A proposal for markup to specify the orientation of tables
and the contents of table cells.</shortdesc>
<refbody>
<section><title>Date and version information</title><p>Include the
following information:</p><ul>
<li>Feature proposal completed June 26, 2012</li>
<li>Champion by Chris Nitchie</li>
<li>Phase 1 approval on October 11, 2011 (minutes missing)</li>
</ul></section>
<section><title>Original requirement or use case</title><p>Consider
adding the @rotate attribute from the CALS table model to the version
of the OASIS Exchange table model used in DITA topics.</p><p>10/11:
@rotate applies only to entry element. Will also try to pick up @orient
at the table level. Will require careful wording related to style
(landscape table in middle of 2-col, or in HTML, etc).</p></section>
<section><title>Use cases</title><p><b>Vertical Column Headers.</b
> A table containing numerical data whose column headers should be
oriented vertically to avoid taking up too much horizontal space.</p
><p><b>Grouped Rows.</b> A user wishes to group a series of rows according
to a single spanning cell at the beginning of the row. To avoid that
cell taking up too much space, the user wants to orient the text in
that cell vertically.</p><p><b>Wide Tables.</b> A table is expected
to be wider than can be comfortably accommodated by an upright page,
so needs to be printed with a landscape orientation.</p></section>
<section>    <title>Proposed solution</title><p>Incorporate the CALS
attributes for supporting these behaviors into the DITA table model,
specifically <codeph>orient</codeph> on <codeph>table</codeph> and <codeph
>rotate</codeph> on <codeph>entry</codeph>.</p>   </section>
<section><title>Benefits</title><p>This feature will benefit users
of complex tables who need greater control over the way the tabular
data is presented. A solution could be built using custom stylesheets
with the <codeph>outputclass</codeph> attribute, but such solutions
would not be as portable as having these attributes built into the
standard.</p></section>
<section><title>Technical requirements</title><dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>DTD and Schema modifications</dt>
<dd><dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>Topic or map specialization</dt>
<dd>These changes will go into the <filepath>tblDecl.mod</filepath
> DTD module and <filepath>tblDeclMod.xsd</filepath> schema.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>Domain</dt>
<dd>No new domain.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>Element</dt>
<dd>No new elements.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>Attributes</dt>
<dd><ul>
<li><codeph>orient</codeph><ul>
<li>Applies to <codeph>table</codeph>.</li>
<li>Specifies the orientation of the resulting table in printed outputs,
or outputs that emulate printed output, such as PDF. A value of <codeph
>"port"</codeph> is “upright”, the same orientation as the rest of
the text flow. &nbsp;An orientation of&nbsp;<codeph>"land"</codeph
>&nbsp;causes the table to be rotated 90° counter–clockwise from the
upright orientation. In situations where a stylesheet or other formatting
mechanism specifies table orientation based on other criteria, or
for non-paginated outputs, the <codeph>orient</codeph> attribute may
be ignored.</li>
<li>Not translated.</li>
</ul></li>
<li><codeph>rotate</codeph><ul>
<li>Applies to <codeph>entry</codeph>.</li>
<li>Users can specify any value other than <codeph>"0"</codeph> for
the <codeph>rotate</codeph> attribute to cause the contents of the
table cell to be rotated 90° counter-clockwise.</li>
<li>Not translated.</li>
</ul></li>
</ul></dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>Processing impact</dt>
<dd><ul>
<li>Print engines will need to be able to orient cells and tables
properly.</li>
<li>These changes will not interact with existing DITA features.</li>
</ul></dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></section>
<section>    <title>Costs</title><p>Spec update costs will be minimal.
The topics in the language reference covering the <codeph>entry</codeph
> and <codeph>table</codeph> elements will need to list the appropriate
new attribute. The DTD/Schema updates will be trivial.</p><p>Tools
that generate paginated output will need to be able to handle the
orientation of tables and text within table cells. XSL-FO stylesheets
will need to be updated to process these attributes and generate the
appropriate markup to rotate tables and cell contents, e.g. <codeph
>&lt;fo:block-container reference-orientation="-90"></codeph>. Other
print engines will have their own mechanisms for implementing text
rotation.  Any print engine that supports these attributes in the
CALS table model should be able to easily support these changes.</p
></section>
<section><title>Examples</title><p>The following markup creates a
narrow table with vertical columns in the header and in multi-row
cells in the first column, and specifies (for no particular reason)
that it be printed in landscape orientation.</p><codeblock>&lt;table <u
>orient="land"</u>>
  &lt;title>Vertical Cells Example&lt;/title>
  &lt;tgroup cols="3">
    &lt;colspec colname="col1" colwidth="22.00pt"/>
    &lt;colspec colname="col2" colwidth="22.00pt"/>
    &lt;colspec colname="col3" colwidth="22.00pt"/>
    &lt;thead>
      &lt;row>
        &lt;entry valign="top">&lt;/entry>
        &lt;entry <u>rotate="1"</u> valign="top">Width&lt;/entry>
        &lt;entry <u>rotate="1"</u> valign="top">Height&lt;/entry>
      &lt;/row>
    &lt;/thead>
    &lt;tbody>
      &lt;row>
        &lt;entry morerows="1" <u>rotate="1"</u>>Small&lt;/entry>
        &lt;entry>2&lt;/entry>
        &lt;entry>4&lt;/entry>
      &lt;/row>
      &lt;row>
        &lt;entry>3&lt;/entry>
        &lt;entry>6&lt;/entry>
      &lt;/row>
      &lt;row>
        &lt;entry morerows="2" <u>rotate="1"</u>>Medium&lt;/entry>
        &lt;entry>6&lt;/entry>
        &lt;entry>12&lt;/entry>
      &lt;/row>
      &lt;row>
        &lt;entry>8&lt;/entry>
        &lt;entry>16&lt;/entry>
      &lt;/row>
      &lt;row>
        &lt;entry>10&lt;/entry>
        &lt;entry>20&lt;/entry>
      &lt;/row>
      &lt;row>
        &lt;entry morerows="1" <u>rotate="1"</u>>Large&lt;/entry>
        &lt;entry>12&lt;/entry>
        &lt;entry>24&lt;/entry>
      &lt;/row>
      &lt;row>
        &lt;entry>15&lt;/entry>
        &lt;entry>30&lt;/entry>
      &lt;/row>
    &lt;/tbody>
  &lt;/tgroup>
&lt;/table></codeblock><?Pub Caret -2?></section>
</refbody>
</reference>
