<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
  <topic id="topic_aqh_5zt_3h">
    <title>Stage 3 proposal: Feature #13078</title>
    <shortdesc>Adding rotation attributes to tables and cells.</shortdesc>
    <body>
      <section>
        <title>Champion</title>
        <p>Championed by Chris Nitchie at all phases.</p>
      </section>
      <section>
        <title>Tracking information</title>
        <simpletable frame="all" relcolwidth="1.0* 1.0* 1.0*">
          <sthead>
            <stentry>Event</stentry>
            <stentry>Date</stentry>
            <stentry>Links</stentry>
          </sthead>
          <strow>
            <stentry>Stage 1 proposal accepted</stentry>
            <stentry>October 11, 2011</stentry>
            <stentry>Minutes missing.</stentry>
          </strow>
          <strow>
            <stentry>Stage 2 proposal submitted</stentry>
            <stentry>June 26, 2012</stentry>
            <stentry>
              <ul id="ul_wcv_4bj_v3">
                <li><xref scope="external"
                    href="https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/document.php?document_id=46352"
                    >HTML</xref></li>
                <li><xref scope="external"
                    href="https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/document.php?document_id=46353"
                    >Source</xref></li>
              </ul>
            </stentry>
          </strow>
          <strow>
            <stentry>Stage 2 proposal discussed</stentry>
            <stentry>July 3, 2012</stentry>
            <stentry><xref scope="external"
                href="https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/document.php?document_id=46444"
                >Minutes</xref></stentry>
          </strow>
          <strow>
            <stentry>Stage 2 proposal approved</stentry>
            <stentry>July 10, 2012</stentry>
            <stentry><xref scope="external"
                href="https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/document.php?document_id=46457"
                >Minutes</xref></stentry>
          </strow>
          <strow>
            <stentry>Stage 3 proposal submitted to reviewers</stentry>
            <stentry>December 2, 2012</stentry>
            <stentry>Reviewed by David Helfinstine and Nancy Harrison</stentry>
          </strow>
          <strow>
            <stentry>Stage 3 proposal (this document) submitted</stentry>
            <stentry>January 7, 2013</stentry>
            <stentry/>
          </strow>
        </simpletable>
      </section>
      <section>
        <title>Approved technical requirements</title>
        <p>Include the <codeph>@rotate</codeph> and <codeph>@orient</codeph> attributes from the
          CALS table model in the DITA table model.</p>
      </section>
      <section>
        <title>Dependencies or interrelated proposals</title>
        <p>No interrelated proposals.</p>
      </section>
      <section>
        <title>Modified DTDs</title>
        <p>The only DTD file that must be modified is <filepath>tblDecl.mod</filepath> to add
            <codeph>@rotate</codeph> to <codeph>&lt;entry></codeph> and <codeph>@orient</codeph> to
            <codeph>&lt;table></codeph>.</p>
        <codeblock>&lt;!ENTITY % dita.table.attributes
       "rowheader   (firstcol | norowheader | 
                         -dita-use-conref-target) #IMPLIED
        scale (50|60|70|80|90|100|110|120|140|160|180|200| 
                         -dita-use-conref-target) #IMPLIED
        orient      (port|land|-dita-use-conref-target) #IMPLIED
        %univ-atts;
        outputclass CDATA #IMPLIED"></codeblock>
        <codeblock>&lt;!ENTITY % dita.entry.attributes
       "rotate      (0|1|-dita-use-conref-target) #IMPLIED
        %id-atts;
        %localization-atts;
        rev CDATA #IMPLIED
        outputclass CDATA #IMPLIED"></codeblock>
        <note>The attributes in the <codeph>dita.*.attributes</codeph> entities appear to be those
          present in DITA but not in the Exchange table model upon which the DITA model is based,
          which is why these attributes are not added to the main attlist entities for these
          elements.</note>
      </section>
      <section>
        <title>Modified specification documentation</title>
        <p>The only affected specification language will be in the topics for
            <codeph>&lt;table></codeph> and <codeph>&lt;entry></codeph> in the language spec. The
          only changes to those topics will be new rows in their respective attributes tables. Both
          rows are represented below, though they will appear  independent of each other in separate
          topics.</p>
        <simpletable id="simpletable_xpt_fnj_v3">
          <strow>
            <stentry>orient</stentry>
            <stentry>Specifies the orientation of the table in page-based outputs. <ph>This
                attribute is primarily useful for print-oriented display.</ph> Allowable values are:<dl>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>port</dt>
                  <dd>The same orientation as the text flow.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>land</dt>
                  <dd>90 degrees counterclockwise from the text flow.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>-dita-use-​conref-​target </dt>
                  <dd>See <xref href="ditauseconreftarget.dita"/> for more information. </dd>
                </dlentry>
              </dl> In situations where a stylesheet or other formatting mechanism specifies table
              orientation based on other criteria, or for non-paginated outputs, the orient
              attribute may be ignored.<indexterm>orient attribute</indexterm></stentry>
            <stentry>(land | port | <xref href="ditauseconreftarget.dita"
                >-dita-use-​conref-​target</xref>)</stentry>
            <stentry>#IMPLIED</stentry>
            <stentry>No</stentry>
          </strow>
          <strow>
            <stentry>rotate</stentry>
            <stentry>Indicates whether the contents of the entry should be rotated. Allowable values are:<dl>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>1</dt>
                  <dd>The contents of the cell are to be rotated 90 degrees counterclockwise.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>0</dt>
                  <dd>No rotation should occur.</dd>
                </dlentry>
                <dlentry>
                  <dt>-dita-use-conref-target</dt>
                  <dd>See <xref href="ditauseconreftarget.dita"/> for more information. </dd>
                </dlentry>
              </dl>If this attribute is not specified, no rotation should occur. In situations where
              a stylesheet or other formatting mechanism specifies table cell orientation based on
              other criteria, the rotate attribute may be ignored.<indexterm>rotate
                attribute</indexterm></stentry>
            <?Pub Caret 400?>
            <stentry>CDATA</stentry>
            <stentry>#IMPLIED</stentry>
            <stentry>No</stentry>
          </strow>
        </simpletable>
      </section>
    </body>
  </topic>
</dita>
