<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN"
 "concept.dtd">
<concept id="collation"  xml:lang="en-us">
 <title>Collation</title>
 <shortdesc>DITA provides guidance for collation through the &lt;index-sort-as> element. </shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p>The term <term>collation</term> refers to determination of the order (<keyword>collating
    sequence</keyword>) in which character strings should be placed when sorting them, typically for
   processed index output. Even where languages share the same general character set, such as within
   the set of Western European languages, collating sequence often varies according to language and
   locale. Even where languages share the same writing system or script, as for Western European
   languages, the rules for collation may vary based on language, locale, and local editorial
   practices. In addition, some languages, such as Japanese and Simplified Chinese, use ideographic
   scripts where collation is determined by factors such as pronunciation or the number of
   ideographic strokes, rather than the specific characters used. </p>
  <p>Processing applications implement collation using a combination of standard algorithms and
   processor-specific configurations for things like grouping rules, handling of character variants,
   and sorting of English before or after non-English languages. </p>
  <p>One practical way to specify an alternate collating sequence is with the &lt;index-sort-as>
   element within the &lt;indexterm> element. </p>
  <codeblock>&lt;indexterm>[foo]
  &lt;index-sort-as>foo&lt;/index-sort-as>
&lt;/indexterm></codeblock>
  <p>DITA-aware processors will process and collate the index entry "[foo]" as "foo" in output.
   &lt;index-sort-as> may also specify a custom collating scheme to be used by a specialized
   processor. &lt;index-sort-as> provides the semantic to specify alternate collating sequences
   without enumerating or specifying what those sequences might be. </p>
  <codeblock>&lt;indexterm>[foo]
  &lt;index-sort-as>collating-scheme-1&lt;/index-sort-as>
&lt;/indexterm></codeblock>
  <draft-comment>2009/05/23 NH: topic will need to be updated at DITA 1.3 to describe the collate-as
   (or some other named generic collation element).</draft-comment>
 </conbody>
</concept>
