<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?Pub Sty _display FontColor="red"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN"
 "topic.dtd">
<topic id="filter-and-flag-intro" rev="1.2.1" xml:lang="en-US">
 <title>Conditional processing</title>
 <shortdesc>The DITA standard includes elements and attributes that support conditional processing.
  These elements and attributes provide the general semantics for managing conditional processing,
  but they impose neither requirements nor restrictions on how particular processors format the
  output.</shortdesc>
 <body>
  <p><draft-comment author="Kristen James Eberlein" rev="6 March 2010">This topic was removed from
    the "Introduction to DITA" section. We need to ensure that all relevant content in this topic is
    covered in the applicable section.</draft-comment>The DITA standard includes a starter set of
   attributes that can be used to perform conditional processing. Additional attributes also can be
   specialized from the @props attribute. When conditional processing attributes are applied to
   elements in a topic or DITA map, such elements can be filtered (included or excluded) or flagged
   (marked with highlighting or images) when processed. This facility enables authors and
   information architects to create topics and DITA maps that contain elements that apply to
   specific sets of conditions; the conditions can represent any set of distinctions that are
   meaningful to the information set, such as product version, audience type, software and hardware
   platform, and more.</p>
  <p> When DITA content is processed, the set of applicable conditions for the processing session is
   defined and elements are included, excluded, and flagged based on how they match those conditions
   that are defined. The DITAVAL file is one mechanism for specifying how processors <term
    >should</term> handle the conditional processing attributes. Processors <term
    >may</term> provide other mechanisms for conditional processing.</p>
  <!--<p>See <xref format="dita" href="condproc.dita">Profiling with select
attributes</xref> for details.</p>-->
 </body>
 <?Pub Caret?>
</topic>
<?Pub *0000001988?>
