<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<?Pub Sty _display FontColor="red"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN"
 "topic.dtd">
<topic id="content-reuse-intro" rev="1.2.1" xml:lang="en-US">
 <title>Content reuse</title>
 <shortdesc>Content reuse is a fundamental feature of DITA. DITA includes multiple mechanisms that
  facilitate reuse, including DITA topics in different DITA maps, the conref feature, keyref
  feature, and the ability to set metadata at the DITA map level.</shortdesc>
 <body>
  <draft-comment author="Kristen James Eberlein" rev="6 March 2010">This topic was removed from the
   "Introduction to DITA" section. We need to ensure that all relevant content in this topic is
   covered in the applicable section.</draft-comment>
  <draft-comment author="Kristen James Eberlein" rev="5 March 2010">Comment from review #3:<p
    >[Hamilton, 4 Jan 2010] The previous [Linking and addresing] section refers to use-by-reference,
    which I took to mean the conref mechanism. If that's the case, why is the term not used in this
    topic at all? If it's not the case, then it would help to have a clearer definition of what
    use-by-reference means. </p></draft-comment>
  <p >Any number of DITA maps can reference any number of DITA topics. This is the
   primary reuse mechanism in DITA.</p>
  <p>Elements within topics can be reused by means of the content reference (conref) mechanism. Any
   DITA element can point to another element of the same or more specialized type by using the
   @conref or @conkeyref attribute. This establishes that the referenced element should replace the
   referencing element when the topic or map that contains the reference is processed. For example,
   technical documentation often includes legal warnings that must be rendered precisely. Using the
   conref mechanism to include such legal warnings eliminates errors that might be introduced by
   cutting and pasting. The content reference facility also allows content to be pushed into topics.
   For example, you can have a generic task to which model-specific steps are pushed in order to
   dynamically create a complete, context-specific task.</p>
  <p>Content reuse is also supported by the DITA key reference (keyref) feature. This makes it
   possible for DITA editors and processors to resolve references to topics, DITA maps, and certain
   elements based on key definitions in the root maps. For example, the documentation for a family
   of printers contains topics that are common for several different product lines; each topic,
   however, needs to include model-specific graphics when it is rendered. Prior to DITA 1.2, this
   could be handled only by conditional processing; now it can be accomplished by using the keyref
   mechanism. </p>
  <p>The keyref facility provides a mechanism by which invariant keys can be bound to DITA topics,
   maps, and elements. Within DITA maps and topics, keys can be used in placed of direct URI
   references. DITA processors and editors resolve the keys to resources specified by the root map;
   different root maps then can bind the same key to different resources. Using our example of a
   documentation library for a family of desktop printers, the writing team could designate a
   different root map for each printer model. Each root map would specify a different key
   definition, ensuring that model-specific graphics would be rendered when the model-specific root
   map was rendered.</p>
  <p>Metadata attributes and elements also enable content reuse. For example, an information can set
   navigation titles and short descriptions in a DITA map in order to define a more-specific use
   context for a generic topic. Given a generic topic with the title "Changing the ink cartridge,"
   the navigation title of "Changing the ink cartridge for model 3556 printer" could be set in the
   DITA map.</p>
  <!--<p><draft-comment author="Kristen James Eberlein" rev="1 December 2009">Paragraph
moved from "Introduction to DITA"</draft-comment>DITA encourages the
reuse of maps, topics, and element.</p>-->
 </body>
</topic>
<?Pub Caret?>
<?Pub *0000003455?>
