<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2005, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept
  id="dataextend"
  
  xml:lang="en-us">
  <title>Data extensibility</title>
  <shortdesc>The &lt;data&gt; element contains metadata properties ranging from simple values to
    complex structures. Processes can harvest properties from the &lt;data&gt; element for automated
    manipulation or to format data associated with the body flow. The &lt;data&gt; element is
    primarily intended for use in creating specializations.</shortdesc>
  <conbody><draft-comment
      author="WEK">I think this topic should be integrated with the language reference entry for
      &lt;data> since it is purely about the semantics and use of &lt;data> and not about
      specialization in general.</draft-comment><p>You can nest &lt;data&gt; elements in structures
      for complex properties. You can use the name attribute to distinguish different semantic of
      instances of the &lt;data&gt; element such as addresses, times, amounts, and so on. In many
      cases, however, you may prefer to specialize the &lt;data&gt; element for more precise
      semantics and for constraints on structures and values. For instance, a specialization can
      specify an enumeration for the value attribute. </p><p>A &lt;data&gt; element containing
      properties of a topic as a whole goes in the topic &lt;prolog&gt; or &lt;metadata&gt; element,
      or in a &lt;topicmeta&gt; element referencing the topic. The &lt;data&gt; element generally
      goes at the beginning of the element to which the properties in it refer. Where this is
      unwieldy, the &lt;data&gt; element can go in the &lt;prolog&gt;, with the data-about attribute
      identifying which specific element in the topic is the reference.<draft-comment>Should there
        be a caveat here that a conref to such an element would not pick up such properties? I doubt
        that processing of conref looks for non-contained &lt;data&gt; elements referring to the
        element that is the target of the conref.</draft-comment></p><p>A process can harvest the
      values of these properties for a machine-processable representation such as RDF. The default
      formatting ignores the &lt;data&gt; element within the &lt;body&gt; element. Customized or
      specialized processing can be extended to render property values, given an appropriate
      specification of which values should be displayed, in which outputs, and how and where they
      should appear in output.</p><p>
      <draft-comment>Moved text of Caution to new generalizeData.dita topic. Should we still have a
        caveat here?</draft-comment>
    </p><section
      id="section_9BBEDCB913D74DE89E61A3AF91014EDF">
      <title>Applications</title>
      <p>Uses of the &lt;data&gt; element include the following:</p>
      <ul
        id="ul_E0897D5C60174C1A8E9F994F4187FC00">
        <li
          id="li_A6DACE97709440539F6C2B6381E8D0FD">Complex metadata properties such as bibliographic
          records corresponding to citations.</li>
        <li
          id="li_138EB518C35E422596F8879CFFCE98C9">Hybrid documents with data values as part of the
          content. (Word processor formats using form fields provide an example of such hybrid
          documents.) </li>
        <li
          id="li_21E6638C63894E74B233BD38B48F7FD6">Messages in which the payload includes
          human-readable content. Such applications can use the &lt;data&gt; element to define the
          addressing on the message envelope. For instance, a topic could model an email message by
          representing the address with specialized &lt;data&gt; elements in the &lt;prolog&gt;
          element and the content with the &lt;body&gt; element.</li>
        <li
          id="li_25511BEB6E2644DC827ED6349D962FF5">Transactional documents in which the values are
          processed but also displayed with human-readable content. In particular, a library of
          building blocks for transaction documents can be implemented through a DITA domain as
          specialized &lt;data&gt; elements including those from the UN/CEFACT Core Components
          Technical Specification (<xref
            format="html"
            href="http://www.unece.org/cefact/"
            scope="external">http://www.unece.org/cefact/</xref>). </li>
      </ul>
    </section><example
      id="example_413C8918B0EE4E308CEA480DB932DAD9">
      <p>The following example specifies the delimited source code for a code fragment so an
        automated process can refresh the code fragment. The &lt;fragmentSource&gt;,
        &lt;sourceFile&gt;, &lt;startDelimiter&gt;, and &lt;endDelimiter&gt; elements are
        specialized from &lt;data&gt; but the &lt;codeFragment&gt; is specialized from
        &lt;codeblock&gt;. These properties wouldn't appear in the formatted output (except perhaps
        for debugging problems in the refresh): </p>
      <codeblock><![CDATA[<example>
    <title>An important coding technique</title>
    <codeFragment>
        <fragmentSource>
            <sourceFile     value="helloWorld.java"/>
            <startDelimiter value="FRAGMENT_START_1"/>
            <endDelimiter   value="FRAGMENT_END_1"/>
        </fragmentSource>
        ...
    </codeFragment>
</example>
]]></codeblock>
    </example>
    <example
      id="example_AC046A1392F84CA98BF29F09CEB01F23">
      <p>The following example identifies a real estate property as part of a house description. The
        &lt;realEstateProperty&gt; element and its child elements are specialized from &lt;data&gt;.
        The &lt;houseDescription&gt; element is specialized from &lt;section&gt;. A specialized
        process can format the values as part of a brochure if they meet criteria for inclusion.</p>
      <codeblock><![CDATA[<houseDescription>
  <title>A great home for sale</title>
  <realEstateProperty>
    <realEstateBlock value="B7"/>
    <realEstateLot   value="4003"/>
    ...
  </realEstateProperty>
  <p>This elegant....</p>
  <object data="B7_4003_tour360Degrees.swf"/>
</houseDescription>
]]></codeblock>
    </example></conbody>
</concept>
<?Pub *0000005191?>
