<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2008, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN"
 "topic.dtd">
<?Pub Sty _display FontColor="red"?>
<?Pub Inc?>
<topic id="ditaspec"  xml:lang="en-us">
<title>About the DITA 1.2 specification</title>
<shortdesc>The Darwin Information Typing Architecture (DITA) 1.2 specification
defines a set of  document types for authoring and organizing topic-oriented
information, as well as a set of mechanisms for combining and extending
document types using a process called specialization.</shortdesc>
<body>
<p>The technical specification consists of the following components:<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>DTDs and schemas</dt>
<dd>The DTDs and schemas define DITA markup for the DITA <ph rev="1.2.1">vocabulary
modules and concrete</ph> document types, as well as catalog files.
While the DTDs and schemas should define the same DITA elements, the
DTDs are normative if <ph rev="1.2.1">there</ph> is a discrepancy.<!--<draft-comment author="WEK">Added "vocabulary modules and concrete"</draft-comment>--></dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>Language reference</dt>
<dd>The language reference provides information about each element
in the DITA <ph rev="1.2.1">vocabulary modules</ph>.<!--<draft-comment author="WEK">Changed "DTDs" to "vocabulary modules".</draft-comment>--></dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>Architectural specification</dt>
<dd >                         <p>This document contains the
following parts:<ul>
<li>An introduction, which provides background concepts and an overview
of the architecture</li>
<li>The DITA markup specification, which provides an overview of the
base-DITA document types</li>
<li>The DITA processing specification, which provides descriptions
of common DITA-processing expectations</li>
<li>The DITA specialization specification, which provides details
of the mechanisms that DITA provides for defining and extending DITA
document types</li>
</ul></p>             <p>While the architectural specification does
contain some introductory information, it is intended neither as an
introduction to DITA nor as a users guide. The intended audience of
this specification consists of implementers of the DITA standard,
including tool developers and specializers.</p>           </dd>
</dlentry></dl><draft-comment author="Kristen James Eberlein"
time="9 June 2009">The above content should be modified as the architectural
spec develops, to ensure that it contains a solid and accurate overview
of the content.</draft-comment></p>
<section >       <title>Changes since DITA 1.1</title>  
    <p>The DITA 1.2 specification is designed to be backwards-compatible
with applications that conform to the DITA 1.0 and DITA 1.1 specifications.
The following major changes to the architecture provide added functionality
for DITA 1.2:</p>       <ul>
<li>keyref architecture</li>
<li>conref extensions</li>
<li>Glossary expansion, acronyms, and abbreviations</li>
<li>Taxonomies</li>
<li>Learning and training specialization</li>
<li>Machine industry specialization</li>
<li>Constraints</li>
<li>Topic and domain integration</li>
<li>More general task</li>
<li rev="1.2.1">New elements: <ul>
<li>&lt;sectiondiv>, &lt;bodydiv>, and &lt;text></li>
<li>&lt;keydef></li>
<li>&lt;mapref>, &lt;topicset>, &lt;topicsetref>, and &lt;anchorref>:
New elements to make it easier for information architects and authors
to compose maps.</li>
</ul></li>
</ul>       <draft-comment author="Kristen James Eberlein"
time="16 June 2009">The above content is a rough (and incomplete)
laundry list. It *does* address the entire DITA 1.2 specification,
rather than simply the changes to the base.<p>How – and where – should
we address the ways in which DITA 1.2 is changing what is considered
the base and what is considered a specialization? Changes in packaging
and the numbers of           documents?</p></draft-comment>     </section>
<section>       <title>Changes since DITA 1.0</title>       <p>The
DITA 1.1 specification was designed to be backwards-compatible with
applications that conform to the DITA 1.0 specification. The following
major changes to the architecture provided added functionality for
DITA 1.1:<ul>
<li>A &lt;bookmap> specialization for encoding book-specific information
in a DITA             map</li>
<li>A &lt;glossentry> specialization for glossary entries</li>
<li>Indexing specializations for see, see-also, page ranges, and sort
order</li>
<li>Improvements to graphic scaling capability</li>
<li>Improved short description flexibility through a new &lt;abstract>
element</li>
<li>Specialization support for new global attributes, such as conditional
processing             attributes</li>
<li>Support for integration of existing content structures through
the &lt;foreign>             element</li>
<li>Support for new kinds of information and structures through the &lt;data>
and             &lt;unknown> elements</li>
<li>Formalization of conditional processing profiles</li>
</ul></p>     </section>
<section >       <title>Authors</title>   <p>The following
individuals authored sections of the DITA 1.2 architectural specification:<sl>
<sli conref="#ditaspec/robert_anderson"></sli>
<sli conref="#ditaspec/kris_eberlein"></sli>
<sli conref="#ditaspec/joann_hackos"></sli>
<sli conref="#ditaspec/nancy_harrison"></sli>
<sli conref="#ditaspec/erik_hennum"></sli>
<sli conref="#ditaspec/gershon_joseph"></sli>
<sli conref="#ditaspec/elliot_kimber"></sli>
</sl><draft-comment author="Kristen James Eberlein"
time="20 September 2009">How does this list need to be expanded to
cover documentation that includes both the arch spec and lang ref?</draft-comment></p>  </section>
<section rev="1.2.1">       <title>Reviewers</title>       <p>The
following individuals reviewed sections of the DITA 1.2 architectural
specification:<sl>
<sli conref="#ditaspec/kris_eberlein"></sli>
<sli conref="#ditaspec/stan_doherty"></sli>
<sli conref="#ditaspec/joann_hackos"></sli>
<sli conref="#ditaspec/paul_grosso"></sli>
<sli conref="#ditaspec/sowmya_kannan"></sli>
<sli conref="#ditaspec/elliot_kimber"></sli>
<sli conref="#ditaspec/zarella_rendon"></sli>
<sli conref="#ditaspec/dana_spradley"></sli>
<sli conref="#ditaspec/su-laine_yeo"></sli>
</sl><draft-comment author="Kristen James Eberlein"
time="20 September 2009">How does this list need to be expanded to
cover documentation that includes both the arch spec and lang ref?</draft-comment></p> 
   </section>
<section>       <title>Members of the OASIS DITA Technical Committee</title> 
     <draft-comment author="Kristen James Eberlein">The following &lt;sl>
is based on contents of the DITA TC roster on 9 June 2009. It includes
at least one person who no longer is at IBM. I added an         ümlaut
to Gesellschaft für technische Kommunikation-tekom e.v.; otherwise,
names and companies are listed exactly as they are on the roster.</draft-comment> 
     <sl >
<sli>Markus Abt, Comet Communication</sli>
<sli>Chuck Allen</sli>
<sli>Ole Andersen, Content Technologies ApS</sli>
<sli id="robert_anderson">Robert Anderson, IBM</sli>
<sli>Charles Angione, PTC</sli>
<sli>Jeff Antley, IBM</sli>
<sli>Jumpei Aoki, Justsystems Corporation</sli>
<sli>Mike Austin, Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.</sli>
<sli>Ian Balanza-Davis</sli>
<sli>Paul Barley, IBM</sli>
<sli>Annette Bauerle, IBM</sli>
<sli>Duane Becker, IBM</sli>
<sli>Visnja Beg, IBM</sli>
<sli>Bob Beims, Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.</sli>
<sli>Wendy Beren, Active Endpoints, Inc.</sli>
<sli>Alan Bernard, Hewlett-Packard</sli>
<sli>Bob Bernard, IBM</sli>
<sli>Susan Blaisdell, Avaya, Inc.</sli>
<sli>Brian Bokor, IBM</sli>
<sli>Anne Bovard, Comtech Services, Inc.</sli>
<sli>Andrew Brown, EMC Corporation</sli>
<sli>Kevin Brown, RenderX, Inc.</sli>
<sli>Sharon Burton, MadCap Software Inc.</sli>
<sli>Christopher Chung, Houghton Mifflin Harcourt</sli>
<sli>Tom Cihak, Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.</sli>
<sli>Sarahjane Clark, XyEnterprise Inc.</sli>
<sli>Sissi Closs, Comet Communication</sli>
<sli>Robin Cover, OASIS</sli>
<sli>Daniel Cunningham, PTC</sli>
<sli>Sheila Dannunzio, STMicroelectronics</sli>
<sli>Don Day, IBM</sli>
<sli id="stan_doherty">Stanley Doherty</sli>
<sli>Jim Earley, Flatirons Solutions Corporation</sli>
<sli id="kris_eberlein">Kristen James Eberlein</sli>
<sli>Paul Eisenberg, Really Strategies, Inc.</sli>
<sli>Matthew Ellison</sli>
<sli>Chester Ensign</sli>
<sli>Alice Etim, IBM</sli>
<sli>Fred Evers, Oracle Corporation</sli>
<sli>Steve Fogel, Oracle Corporation</sli>
<sli>Rob Frankland</sli>
<sli>Steffen Frederiksen, Content Technologies ApS</sli>
<sli>Sebastian Fuhrer, IBM</sli>
<sli>Yoshinori Fukuhara, Justsystems Corporation</sli>
<sli>Wayne Gafford, US Department of Defense (DoD)</sli>
<sli>Greg Gaspard, Houghton Mifflin Harcourt</sli>
<sli>Patricia Gee, Sun Microsystems</sli>
<sli>Chip Gettinger, SDL International</sli>
<sli>James Goodner, IBM</sli>
<sli>Chris Goolsby, PTC</sli>
<sli>Jang Graat</sli>
<sli>Tim Grantham</sli>
<sli>John Grillos, IBM</sli>
<sli id="paul_grosso">Paul Grosso, PTC</sli>
<sli id="joann_hackos">JoAnn Hackos, Comtech Services, Inc.</sli>
<sli>Richard Hamilton</sli>
<sli id="nancy_harrison">Nancy Harrison</sli>
<sli>Anna Hartman, Sybase</sli>
<sli>Betty Harvey, ECC Inc.</sli>
<sli>Daniel Heideck</sli>
<sli>Richard Heil</sli>
<sli>David Helfinstine, PTC</sli>
<sli id="erik_hennum">Erik Hennum, IBM</sli>
<sli>Magnus Henriksson, Ericsson</sli>
<sli>Hideki Hiura, Justsystems Corporation</sli>
<sli>Alan Houser Group Wellesley, Inc.</sli>
<sli>Scott Hudson Flatirons Solutions Corporation</sli>
<sli>Daniel Hudson, Booz Allen Hamilton</sli>
<sli>John Hunt, IBM</sli>
<sli>Tony Jewtushenko, Product Innovator Ltd.</sli>
<sli id="gershon_joseph">Gershon Joseph, Cisco Systems, Inc.</sli>
<sli id="sowmya_kannan">Sowmya Kannan, Sun Microsystems</sli>
<sli>Cole Keirsey, LSI Corporation</sli>
<sli>Kraig Keyes, SPAWAR Systems Center Atlantic</sli>
<sli id="elliot_kimber">Eliot Kimber, Really Strategies, Inc.</sli>
<sli>Lauri Kinnunen, KONE Corporation</sli>
<sli>Troy Klukewich, Oracle Corporation</sli>
<sli>Christian Kravogel, SeicoDyne GmbH</sli>
<sli>Manfred Krueger, Gesellschaft für technische Kommunikation-tekom
e.v.</sli>
<sli>Takeshi Kuwabara, Justsystems Corporation</sli>
<sli>Ian Larner, IBM</sli>
<sli>Seraphim Larsen, Intel Corporation</sli>
<sli>Gerardo Laster, Citrix Systems, Inc.</sli>
<sli>Corey Leong</sli>
<sli>Indi Liepa, Nokia Corporation</sli>
<sli>Michael Limanni, IBM</sli>
<sli>Jonatan Lundin Citec Information Oy and Affiliates</sli>
<sli>Hugh MacKenzie, The Boeing Company</sli>
<sli>Steven Manning, Rockley Group</sli>
<sli>Alessio Marchetti, PTC</sli>
<sli>Paul Masalsky, EMC Corporation</sli>
<sli>Noreen McMahan, Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.</sli>
<sli>Doug McQuaidm Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.</sli>
<sli>Mary McRae, OASIS</sli>
<sli>Kimberly Melancon, Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.</sli>
<sli>Peter Meyer, Elkera Pty Limited</sli>
<sli>David Muir, IBM</sli>
<sli>Glen Mules, IBM</sli>
<sli>sukumar munshi, Lionbridge</sli>
<sli>Mark Myers, SAP AG</sli>
<sli>Mark Nathans</sli>
<sli>Bruce Nevin, Cisco Systems, Inc.</sli>
<sli>Anil Nigam, IBM</sli>
<sli>Kiyomi Nishitani, Justsystems Corporation</sli>
<sli>Hans Nystrom, IBM</sli>
<sli>ultan obroin, Oracle Corporation</sli>
<sli>Jeff Ogden, PTC</sli>
<sli>Paul O'Rear, Microsoft Corporation</sli>
<sli>Seth Park, Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.</sli>
<sli>Michael Pearson, Intel Corporation</sli>
<sli>Josef Pellizzari, Novartis Parys</sli>
<sli>Pierre Belgian, SPF Finances</sli>
<sli>Mark Poston, Mekon Limited</sli>
<sli>Scott Prentice</sli>
<sli>Michael Priestley, IBM</sli>
<sli>Patrick Quinlan, Citrix Systems, Inc.</sli>
<sli>Allyn Radford </sli>
<sli>Jeremy Ralph, Productivity Design Tools Inc.</sli>
<sli>Alan Ratliff, Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.</sli>
<sli>Rodolfo Raya, Maxprograms</sli>
<sli>Mathias Rehsoeft, Gesellschaft für technische Kommunikation-tekom
e.v.</sli>
<sli id="zarella_rendon"> Zarella Rendon, PTC</sli>
<sli>Dave Resch, Sybase</sli>
<sli>Ann Rockley, Rockley Group</sli>
<sli>Nick Rosenthal</sli>
<sli>Alan Rosenthal, Microsoft Corporation</sli>
<sli>Lech Rzedzicki, Pearson PLC</sli>
<sli>Yoshiyuki SAKAMOTO, Justsystems Corporation</sli>
<sli>Derek Saldana, Freescale Semiconductor, Inc.</sli>
<sli>Roland Schmeling</sli>
<sli>Bryan Schnabel</sli>
<sli>Dee Schur, OASIS</sli>
<sli>Howard Schwartz, SDL International</sli>
<sli>Lisa Seaburg</sli>
<sli>Anthony Self, Hyperwrite Pty. Ltd.</sli>
<sli>Punyanjan Sen, Adobe Systems</sli>
<sli>Eric Severson, Flatirons Solutions Corporation</sli>
<sli>Nigel Shaw, Eurostep AB</sli>
<sli>Jae Sheddy, LSI Corporation</sli>
<sli>Peter Shepton, Intel Corporation</sli>
<sli>Chona Shumate</sli>
<sli>Jeremy Siadal, Intel Corporation</sli>
<sli>Jerry Silver, EMC Corporation</sli>
<sli>Eric Sirois, IBM</sli>
<sli>Robin Sloan, PTC</sli>
<sli>Jerry Smith, US Department of Defense (DoD)</sli>
<sli>Addam Smith, Justsystems Corporation</sli>
<sli id="dana_spradley">Dana Spradley, Oracle Corporation</sli>
<sli>Robert Stayton</sli>
<sli>Marcus Streets, Thales e-Security</sli>
<sli>Steve Studer, IBM</sli>
<sli>Joyce Svechota, PTC</sli>
<sli>Amber Swope</sli>
<sli>Eric Thomas, IBM</sli>
<sli>Robert Thomas, Tagsmiths LLC</sli>
<sli>Reuben Tozman</sli>
<sli>Harold Trent, Comtech Services, Inc.</sli>
<sli>Scott Tsao, The Boeing Company</sli>
<sli>B. Urbina, Mekon Limited</sli>
<sli>Sharon Veach, Sun Microsystems</sli>
<sli>Robert Vitello, New York State Department of Labor</sli>
<sli>Ulrich Wachowius, SDL International</sli>
<sli>Tracy Wallman, IBM</sli>
<sli>David Walters, IBM</sli>
<sli>Kara Warburton, IBM</sli>
<sli>Kay Whatley</sli>
<sli>Alexander Witzigmann, Tanner AG</sli>
<sli id="su-laine_yeo">Su-Laine Yeo, Justsystems Corporation</sli>
<sli>Bill Young, Flatirons Solutions Corporation</sli>
<sli>Pine Zhang, UOML Alliance</sli>
<sli>Wolfgang Ziegler, Gesellschaft für technische Kommunikation-tekom
e.v.</sli>
<sli>Andrzej Zydron, XML Intl.</sli>
</sl>     </section>
<section>       <title>Special thanks</title>       <p>XXX</p>   
 </section>
<section>       <title>History</title><table>
<tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col1" colwidth="44*"/><colspec
colname="col2" colwidth="155*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">2004-04-12</entry>
<entry colname="col2">OASIS DITA Technical Committee formed with initial
submission of                 materials from IBM.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">2005-06-01</entry>
<entry colname="col2">OASIS DITA 1.0 specification approved by OASIS.</entry>
</row>
<row >
<entry colname="col1"><ph rev="1.2.1">2007-07–01</ph></entry>
<entry colname="col2">OASIS DITA 1.1 specification approved by OASIS.</entry>
</row>
<row >
<entry colname="col1">?</entry>
<entry colname="col2">OASIS DITA 1.2 specification approved by OASIS.</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>     </section><?Pub Caret?>
</body>
</topic>
<?Pub *0000014988?>
