<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2005, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN"
 "concept.dtd">
<concept id="whytopics" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Why topics?</title>
<shortdesc>Topics are the basis for high-quality information. They should
be short enough to be easily readable, but long enough to make sense on their
own.</shortdesc>
<conbody>
<p><draft-comment>This topic is not used.</draft-comment>By organizing content into topics, authors can achieve several goals simultaneously: </p>
<ul>
<li>Content is readable even when accessed from an index or search, not just
when read in sequence as part of a chapter. Since most readers don&apos;t
read information end-to-end, it&apos;s good information design to make sure
each unit of information can be read on its own to give just-in-time help. </li>
<li>Content can be organized differently for online and print purposes. Authors
can create task flows and concept hierarchies for online orientation, and
still have a print-friendly combined hierarchy that helps people who do want
an organized reading flow. </li>
<li>Content can be reused in different collections. Since the topic is written
to make sense when accessed randomly (as by search), it should also make sense
when included as part of different product deliverables, so authors can refactor
information as needed, including just the topics that apply for each reuse
scenario. </li>
</ul>
<p>Topics are small enough to provide lots of opportunities for reuse, but
large enough to be coherently authored and read. While DITA supports reuse
below the topic level, this requires considerably more thought and review,
since topics assembled out of smaller chunks often require editing to make
them flow properly. By contrast, since topics are already organized around
a single subject, authors can organize a set of topics logically and get an
acceptable flow between them, since transitions from subject to subject don&apos;t
need to be as seamless as the explanations within a single subject. </p>
</conbody>
</concept>
<?Pub *0000002071?>
