<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2005, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="dita_spec_2_1_info_tasks"  xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Machinery Tasks</title>
<shortdesc> Machinery task topics  answer similar to the generic task topics the "How do I?" questions, and have a well-defined
structure that describes how to complete a procedure to accomplish a specific
goal. Compared to a generic task, a machinery task topic contains more descriptive elements in the prelreqs section.The Machinery task topic is a specialized task type using the DITA constraint technique.</shortdesc>
<conbody>
<section id="section_F9AB21B4659F4AABBC58797D6C30BE13"><title>Why machinery tasks?</title><p>Machinery tasks are the essential building blocks
for providing procedure information for machines, machinery equipments, assemblies and apparatus. A machinery task topic answers the "How do I?"
question by providing precise step-by-step instructions detailing what requirements must be fulfilled, what to
do and the order in which to do it. The machinery task topic includes sections for describing
the context, preliminary requirements, expected results, examples, closing requirements and other aspects of a task. </p></section>
<section id="section_04F3B03B678B4F3AA833E9CC37351771"><title>Machinery task structure</title><p>Similar as in a generic task, the &lt;task&gt; element is the top-level
element for a machinery task topic. Every machinery task topic contains a &lt;title&gt; and a &lt;taskbody&gt;
and optional  &lt;titlealts&gt;, &lt;shortdesc&gt; or &lt;abstract&gt;, &lt;prolog&gt;, &lt;related-links&gt;,
and nested topics<?Pub Caret?>.</p><p>The &lt;taskbody&gt; element is the main
body-level element inside a machinery task topic. A machinery task body has a very specific structure,
with the following elements in this order: (&lt;prelreqs&gt; or &lt;context&gt; or &lt;section&gt;)*, &lt;steps&gt;, &lt;result&gt;, &lt;example&gt;
and &lt;closereqs&gt;. Each of the body sections is optional.</p><dl><dlentry>
<dt>&lt;prelreqs&gt;</dt>
<dd><b>Special element used in a machinery task. </b>The preliminary-requirements section of a task should document things the user needs to know or
do before starting the current task. The &lt;prelreqs&gt; element is
similar to &lt;prereq&gt; but contains the following more descriptive content model. The &lt;prelreqs&gt; element contains &lt;reqconds&gt;, &lt;reqpers&gt;, &lt;supequip&gt;, &lt;supplies&gt;, &lt;spares&gt; and &lt;safety&gt;<dl><dlentry><dt>&lt;reqconds&gt;</dt><dd>The required-conditions element contains the description of all required conditions that have
to be fulfilled before performing a task.</dd></dlentry><dlentry><dt>&lt;reqpers&gt;</dt><dd>The Required-Personnel
element contains information on the personnel required for the task. E.g. number of personell and skills</dd></dlentry><dlentry><dt>&lt;supequip&gt;</dt><dd>The Support-Equipment element lists any required support equipment for the task e.g. special tools like a torque wrench, along with
optional descriptions.</dd></dlentry><dlentry><dt>&lt;supplies&gt;</dt><dd>The supplies element has to
be used to list and maybe to describe any supplies required for the
task, e.g. supplies to be procured locally.</dd></dlentry><dlentry><dt>&lt;spares&gt;</dt><dd>The spares element lists spare
parts required for a task, and may include descriptions of those parts.</dd></dlentry><dlentry><dt>&lt;safety&gt;</dt><dd>The Safety-Condition element has to be used to list and maybe to describe any safety condition
that has to be taken in account for the task.<b> You may use the hazardstatement element in safety.</b></dd></dlentry></dl></dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>&lt;context&gt;</dt>
<dd>Provides background information for the task. This information helps the
user understand what the purpose of the task is and what they will gain by
completing the task. This section should be brief and does not replace or
recreate a concept topic on the same subject, although the context section
may include some conceptual information.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry><dt>&lt;section&gt;</dt><dd>Provides additional information and descriptoins of other aspects of a task</dd></dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>&lt;steps&gt;</dt>
<dd>Provides the main content of the task topic. A task consists of a series
of steps that accomplish the task. The &lt;steps&gt; section must have one or
more &lt;step&gt; elements, which provide the specifics about each step in in
the task.<p>The &lt;step&gt; element represents an action that a user must follow
to accomplish a task. Each step in a task must contain a command &lt;cmd&gt;
element which describes the particular action the user must do to accomplish
the overall task. The step element can also contain information &lt;info&gt;,
substeps &lt;substeps&gt;, tutorial information &lt;tutorialinfo&gt;, a step example &lt;stepxmp&gt;,
choices &lt;choices&gt; or a stepresult &lt;stepresult&gt;, although these are optional.</p></dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>&lt;result&gt;</dt>
<dd>Describes the expected outcome for the task as a whole. </dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>&lt;example&gt;</dt>
<dd>Provides an example that illustrates or supports the task. </dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>&lt;closereqs&gt;</dt>
<dd><b>Special element used in a machinery task. </b>Describes required conditions that have to be fulfilled after the successful
completion of the current task. It is often supported by links to the next
task or tasks in the &lt;related-links&gt; section. The &lt;closereqs&gt; element contains &lt;reqconds&gt;<dl><dlentry><dt>&lt;reqconds&gt;</dt><dd>The required-conditions element contains the description of all required conditions that have
to be fulfilled before performing a task.</dd></dlentry></dl></dd>
</dlentry></dl></section>
<example id="example_1B8BA0FB53C04CE5AF1CF04D601D4956">Here’s an example of a machinery task topic.<pre xml:space="preserve">tbd
</pre></example>
<section id="section_E222FFE915194BEEB2614FA65EA125B7"><title>Modules</title><sl>
<sli>machineryTask.dtd (DTD), machineryTaskbodyConstraint.mod</sli>
<sli>machineryTaskbodyConstraintMod.xsd, machineryTask.xsd (Schema)</sli>
</sl></section>
</conbody>
</concept>
<?Pub *0000003809?>

