<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2005, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept
  id="concept-1"
  
  xml:lang="en-us">
  <title>Processing foreign content</title>
  <shortdesc>The default behavior for &lt;foreign&gt; is to try to display the content. If the
    processor cannot render the content, it <keyword>may</keyword> emit a warning. The default
    processing behavior for &lt;unknown&gt; is to suppress. </shortdesc>
  <conbody>
    <?Pub Caret1?>
    <draft-comment
      author="WEK">I think this topic should be integrated with the reference entry for &lt;foreign>
      as it's simply defining the processing rules for that element type, not
      architectural.</draft-comment>
    <p>This section describes processing behaviour of specialized foreign content based on existing
      standard vocabularies for non-textual content.</p>
    <section
      id="section_66EACE9DBA8347418CF8039107FD1DBB">
      <title>Default processing for &lt;foreign&gt;</title>
      <p>Base processing attempts to display &lt;foreign&gt; content unless otherwise
        instructed.</p>
      <p>The enabler of the foreign vocabulary must provide the processing and override the base
        processing for &lt;foreign&gt;. </p>
      <ul
        id="ul_91B45B69D05C4138A698D8FEE20B72DD">
        <li
          id="li_0D7914E89CB54D37ACB1267B8861D86F">If &lt;foreign&gt; contains more than one
          alternative content element, they will all be processed. In the case of &lt;desc&gt; they
          will be concatenated in a similar way to &lt;section&gt;, but with no title (analogous to
          &lt;div&gt; in HTML). <draft-comment> bnevin: Update the description of &lt;desc&gt; to
            reflect this. Does the following &lt;ls&gt; refer to hover help, or alternative content
            to be rendered if the foreign processor drops the ball? Or both,
            ambiguously?</draft-comment></li>
        <li
          id="li_4594791821234B059500E0BB5E29CDA9">If alternate content is desired, specialize the
          &lt;desc&gt; element to contain it. This specialization of &lt;desc&gt; will be used
          within the element specialized from &lt;foreign&gt;. Such alternate content must of course
          be valid wherever the &lt;foreign&gt; specialization is valid.</li>
        <li
          id="li_DA93ADDC34014B918CC7EF5E0DD93065"> If no &lt;desc&gt;, &lt;object&gt;, or
          &lt;image&gt; element is found within an instance of the &lt;foreign&gt; element, the base
          processing may emit a warning about the absence of processable content.<draft-comment>This
            suggests that &lt;foreign&gt; could contain just one &lt;desc&gt;
            element.</draft-comment></li>
        <li
          id="li_CD218DE850EB4455A4566CE6483905C5">The base processing for &lt;object&gt; can emit
          the content of &lt;foreign&gt; as a file at the location specified by the data attribute
          of the &lt;object&gt; element. The &lt;object&gt; element should have a data attribute or
          a &lt;foreign&gt; sub-element but not both. In the event that an &lt;object&gt; element
          contains both a data attribute and an &lt;foreign&gt; sub-element the processing system
          will ignore one of them.<draft-comment>Can't we tell them which one gets
            ignored?</draft-comment></li>
      </ul>
    </section>
    <section
      id="section_CEDB12011CE84DD3972FCAD3FF9EB32E">
      <title>Default processing for &lt;unknown&gt;</title>
      <p>Base processing skips &lt;unknown&gt; content, doing nothing with it unless otherwise
        instructed.</p>
    </section>
  </conbody>
</concept>
<?Pub *0000002424?>
