<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2005, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN"
 "concept.dtd">
<concept id="glossaryArch"  xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Glossary</title>
<shortdesc>Each DITA glossary topic defines a single sense of one term. Besides
identifying the term and providing a definition, the topic can identify related
terms. </shortdesc>
<conbody>
<section><title>Why glossary?</title><p>Defining terminology is helpful to
the writer so a team of writers can use the same term for the same thing.
The reader can also get an explanation of unfamiliar terminology. More generally,
identification of the things described by the content encourages more precise
treatment of those subjects. Glossary topics can be assembled by authors or
processes to create glossaries for various purposes, including books, Web
sites, or development projects.<draft-comment>from jeff ogden: Say a little
more.  Say that collections of glossary entries are assembled into collections
of terms when they are referenced from a map.  Say that the Glossary topic
type was originally created for use with bookmap, but can be used elsewhere.</draft-comment><draft-comment>MP
response: reluctant to say either - I'm not clear on what special processing
maps could/would provide. Added a paragraph with the simple case (just author
a glossary) below. On the "originally created for bookmap" front, I'm not
sure I agree - one of the requirements going in from an IBM perspective was
for online glossaries rather than book-based ones.</draft-comment><draft-comment>MP:
per jeff ogden and per stan doherty, provided some extra text to clarify that
glossary topics do go into glossaries</draft-comment></p></section>
<section><title>Glossary structure</title><p>The &lt;glossentry&gt; element
is the top-level element for a DITA glossary topic. Every glossary topic contains
a &lt;glossterm&gt; and a &lt;glossdef&gt; element and optional &lt;related-links&gt;. </p><p>Where
a term has multiple senses, the writer should create multiple topics with
the same term in the &lt;glossterm&gt; element but different definitions in
the &lt;glossdef&gt; element. A process can collate and group glossary entries
by term when generating formatted output. Note that definitions with the same
term in one language can have different terms in other languages, so translation
can result in different collation and grouping of the same set of glossary
entries. </p><p>Here is an example of a simple glossary entry:</p><pre><![CDATA[<glossentry id="ddl">
    <glossterm>Data Definition Language</glossterm>
    <glossdef>A language used for defining database schemas.</glossdef>
</glossentry>]]></pre><p>To create a glossary, authors can group multiple
entries together either by authoring in a single document under a container
topic using the ditabase document type (ditabase.dtd/ditabase.xsd), or by
referencing the glossary topics in a map, or by using an automated process,
for example electing glossary topics from a repository based on the &lt;term>
markup in a particular collection of topics.<draft-comment>Per Jeff Ogden
2007/01/22: made authoring option using ditabase explicit; made automated
processing option clearer with an example.<?Pub Caret?></draft-comment></p></section>
<section><title>Modules</title><sl>
<sli>glossentry.mod (DTD) </sli>
<sli>glossentryMod.xsd, glossentryGrp.xsd (Schema)</sli>
</sl></section>
</conbody>
</concept>
<?Pub *0000003502?>
