<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2005, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN"
 "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept-1"  xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Bookmap</title>
<shortdesc>The bookmap specialization of DITA&apos;s standard DITA map allows
you to organize your DITA topics into a collection that can be printed as
a book or other paged layout.</shortdesc>
<conbody></conbody>
<concept id="whyusebookmap">
<title>Why use a bookmap?</title>
<shortdesc>The OASIS bookmap application of DITA allows you to produce your
DITA topics and even whole DITA maps as the content of a formally defined
book. This allows you to produce not only maps for online deliverables, but
also PDFs with the same content, replete with covers, formal notices and frontmatter,
and so forth.</shortdesc>
<conbody></conbody>
</concept>
<concept id="whatisbookamp">
<title>What is a bookmap?</title>
<shortdesc>A bookmap is a special kind of DITA map that defines the major
structures and setup information for producing maps of information as a book.</shortdesc>
<conbody>
<p>A typical DITA map might have a title and then a set of topicrefs, in a
sequence, in a hierarchy, or both, that define the structure by which topics
are to be viewed as a complete information deliverable. A DITA map does not
have structures to specifically designate how topics are to be treated as
chapters, preface content, or even for constructing a cover or special content
(such as edition notice boilerplate). To enable DITA content to be viewed
in a more booklike manner, you need a context that represents all the special
processing that might be invested on producing a map or set of maps as a book.
That is the role of DITA&apos;s bookmap specialization.</p>
<p>A bookmap has the following specialized major structures:</p>
<ul>
<li>An optional title or booktitle (which itself can have substructure for
complex titles)</li>
<li>Optional bookmeta (all the information about the book--its owners, authors,
publishing data, and so forth)</li>
<li>Optional frontmatter (the usual preface and introductory topics in a book
prior to the gist of the book, and also including booklists--containers for
special collections of information in a book)</li>
<li>Any number of chapters or parts (which can contain chapters)</li>
<li>Any number of appendix topics</li>
<li>Optional backmatter (often for special notices or supplementary information,
and also for booklists)</li>
<li>Any number of reltables, as in a typical map.</li>
</ul>
<p></p>
</conbody>
<concept id="whatisinbookmeta">
<title>What is bookmeta?</title>
<shortdesc>Bookmeta is a specialization of the topicmeta element in a DITA
map. It has specialized content for holding information about a particular
book represented by the bookmap.</shortdesc>
<conbody></conbody>
</concept>
<concept id="whatisabooklist">
<title>What are booklists?</title>
<shortdesc>A booklist is a specialized topicref that indicates a collection
of information from the content of a book. Sets of &lt;<keyword>booklist</keyword>&gt;
elements (or elements derived from booklist) are contained in the &lt;<keyword>booklists</keyword>&gt;
element.</shortdesc>
<conbody>
<p>A common kind of booklist is the Table of Contents. If you wish, you can
define a completely new collection such as a Table of Footnotes and provide
either a pre-populated topic with that content, or provide processing that
will collect and insert that topical content during the book processing.</p>
<p>Specific booklist elements are provided in the OASIS bookmap for:</p>
<ul>
<li>toc--the usual Table of Contents (commonly located in the frontmatter
booklists)</li>
<li>figurelist--a list of figures</li>
<li>tablelist--a list of tables</li>
<li>abbrevlist--a list of abbreviations</li>
<li>trademarklist--a list of trademarks</li>
<li>bibliolist--a list of bibliographic references</li>
<li>glossarylist--a list of glossary terms and definitions</li>
<li>indexlist--an index (commonly located in the backmatter booklists)</li>
<li>booklist--reference any other topic that contains booklist-like material,
or specialize the element to represent a collection that will be gathered
by new override processing.</li>
</ul>
</conbody>
</concept>
<concept id="whatsinfrontmatter">
<title>What is in frontmatter?</title>
<shortdesc>Front matter of a book typically contains prefaces, instructions,
or other introductory material prior to the actual content of a book.</shortdesc>
<conbody>
<p><draft-comment>from jeff ogden: Explain the use or non use of the href
attribute on items in the booklists section such as toc.</draft-comment><draft-comment>MP
response: leaving details to the language reference</draft-comment>Specific
frontmatter elements include any number of:</p>
<ul>
<li>booklists--collections of book parts, like ToC</li>
<li>notices--edition notices, safety notices, terms and conditions, and so
forth</li>
<li>dedication--to my forebearing significant other...</li>
<li>colophon--how the book was produced</li>
<li>bookabstract--handy for search tools and registry into tracking/workflow
systems<draft-comment>per Jeff Ogden comment 2007/01/22, changed "abstract"
to "bookabstract"</draft-comment></li>
<li>draftintro--special content for reviewers</li>
<li>preface--an introduction or introductory statement</li>
<li>topicref--extensible placeholder for any topic</li>
<li>topichead--as in a DITA map, this element allows grouping with a navigation
title</li>
<li>topicgroup--as in DITA map, this element allows grouping without a navigation
title.</li>
</ul>
</conbody>
</concept>
<concept id="whatisbackmatter">
<title>What is in backmatter?</title>
<shortdesc>Back matter of a book typically contains closing information that
follows the main content of a book.</shortdesc>
<conbody>
<p>Specific backmatter elements include any number of:</p>
<ul>
<li>booklists--collections of book parts, like the index</li>
<li>notices--edition notices, safety notices, terms and conditions, and so
forth</li>
<li>dedication--to my first grade teacher...</li>
<li>colophon--how the book was produced</li>
<li>amendments--points to a list of amendments or updates to the book</li>
<li>topicref--extensible placeholder for any topic</li>
<li>topichead--as in a DITA map, this element allows grouping with a title</li>
<li>topicgroup--as in DITA map, this element allows grouping without a title.</li>
</ul>
</conbody>
</concept>
</concept>
<concept id="howtousebookmap">
<title>How is a bookmap authored and produced?</title>
<shortdesc>As a specialization of DITA map, the DITA bookmap will be supported
by default like a typical DITA map in DITA-aware editors and processing tools.</shortdesc>
<conbody>
<p>With appropriate style and functional overrides, XML editors can display
a DITA bookmap just as they would the XML structure for other book-supporting
DTDs, and specialized DITA processing or DITA bookmaps will exploit the book
metadata and book features in high quality paged output.</p>
<p>For example, you might have a DITA map that represents the hierarchy you
intend for a particular Web deliverable of your DITA topics. Now you wish
to also produce that map as a formal book to be packaged along with your boxed
product. You can open a new bookmap instance and define a title for the book,
indicate any required publisher information in the bookmeta area, link in
a preface, indicate whether you want a table of figures along with the table
of contents, and finally create a chapter element that references your existing
DITA map. You have created a complete book deliverable, at least in a simplistic
manner. The design of bookmap allows you to refine your deliverable and even
make the book version of the map have content that is specific to the book
version, versus the Web version.</p>
<example>         <title>Example</title>         <pre>&lt;bookmap id=&quot;taskbook&quot;&gt;
  &lt;booktitle&gt;
    &lt;mainbooktitle&gt;Product tasks&lt;/mainbooktitle&gt;
    &lt;booktitlealt&gt;Tasks and what they do&lt;/booktitlealt&gt;
  &lt;/booktitle&gt;
  &lt;bookmeta&gt;
    &lt;author&gt;John Doe&lt;/author&gt;
    &lt;bookrights&gt;
      &lt;copyrfirst&gt;
        &lt;year&gt;2006&lt;/year&gt;
      &lt;/copyrfirst&gt;
      &lt;bookowner&gt;
        &lt;person href=&quot;janedoe.xml&quot;&gt;Jane Doe&lt;/person&gt;
      &lt;/bookowner&gt;
    &lt;/bookrights&gt;
  &lt;/bookmeta&gt;
  &lt;frontmatter&gt;
    &lt;preface/&gt;
  &lt;/frontmatter&gt;
  &lt;chapter format=&quot;ditamap&quot; href=&quot;installing.ditamap&quot;/&gt;
  &lt;chapter href=&quot;configuring.xml&quot;/&gt;
  &lt;chapter href=&quot;maintaining.xml&quot;&gt;
    &lt;topicref href=&quot;maintainstorage.xml&quot;/&gt;
    &lt;topicref href=&quot;maintainserver.xml&quot;/&gt;
    &lt;topicref href=&quot;maintaindatabase.xml&quot;/&gt;
  &lt;/chapter&gt;
  &lt;appendix href=&quot;task_appendix.xml&quot;/&gt;
&lt;/bookmap&gt;</pre><draft-comment>comment from Jeff Ogden 2007/01/22, on
&lt;chapter format="ditamap">: May not want to deal with this as part of the
DITA 1.1 work, but this examples points out an oddity of the use of a reference
in a bookmap to another map.    Here the content of the referenced map replaces
the chapter element rather than being nested within it as would be the case
of a topicref to a topic in this same location.  The use of a map reference
should be to map content that includes one or more chapters, but it could
also allow references to generic topicref elements that could not be authored
directly at this location within the referencing map.  The questions that
arise are should this be legal and if so, should any topicrefs in the referenced
map be treated as chapters?  The situation gets a bit more confusing when
the referencing element is a part rather than a chapter.</draft-comment><draft-comment>MP
response: I'm not sure I see the oddity - in what sense does a topicref "nest"
or contain a target topic? I would have thought in both cases the target can
be seen as replacing the referencing element - in a different way than conref
does, but similarly. In any case t<?Pub Caret?>he discussion on targetting
specific portions of maps (ie a topicref to a topicref) is out of scope for
1.1 - we do have a definition for format="ditamap" and its behavior when referencing
DITA maps, and we don't have to define everything a topicref can point to.</draft-comment> 
     </example>
</conbody>
</concept>
<concept id="dita_spec_intro_bookmap_modules">
<title>Modules</title>
<conbody>
<p>DTD:</p>
<pre>bookmap.dtd
bookmap.mod
</pre>
<p>Schema:</p>
<pre>bookmap.xsd
bookmapGrp.xsd
bookmapMod.xsd</pre>
</conbody>
</concept>
</concept>
<?Pub *0000010729?>
