<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2008, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN"
 "topic.dtd">
<topic id="infotypes"  xml:lang="en-US">
<title>Information typing</title>
<shortdesc>Information typing is the practice of identifying types
of topics that contain distinct   kinds information, such as concept,
task, and reference information. Topics that answer different   reader
questions (How ...? What is ...?) can be categorized with different
information types. The base information types provided by various
DITA specializations, i.e., technical communication, machine industry,
learning and training, and so on, provide starter sets that can be
adopted immediately by many technical and business-related organizations.</shortdesc>
<body>
<p>Classifying information    by type helps authors<ul>
<li>develop new information more consistently </li>
<li>ensure that the correct structure is used for closely related
kinds of information      (retrieval-oriented structures like tables
for reference information and simple sequences of      steps for task
information) </li>
<li>avoid mixing content types, thereby losing reader focus</li>
<li>separate supporting concept and reference information from tasks
so that it can be read if needed and ignored if not</li>
<li>eliminate unimportant or redundant detail</li>
<li>identify common and reusable subject matter</li>
</ul></p>
<p>Information typing has a long history of use in the technical documentation
field to improve    information quality. It is based on extensive
research and experience, including Robert Horn's    Information Mapping<tm
tmtype="tm"></tm> and Hughes Aircraft's STOP (Sequential Thematic
Organization    of Proposals) technique.</p>
<p>Information types in DITA are expressed as topic types. The core
topic types provided by DITA    specializations, such as the technical
communication and learning and training specializations,    can be
used as a basis for further specialization. Additional information
types that require    unique structures and semantics can be supported
by developing specialized topic types that    define the specific
markup and structural rules required.</p>
<p >Note that many additional topic types included in DITA
1.1 and 1.2 are not    necessarily closely connected with traditional
Information Mapping<tm tmtype="tm"></tm>.</p>
</body>
</topic>
