<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2005, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN"
 "topic.dtd">
<topic id="integrate" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Integration</title>
<shortdesc>Each domain specialization or structural specialization has its
own design module. These modules can be combined to create many different
document types. The process of creating a new document type from a specific
combination of modules is called integration. </shortdesc>
<body>
<p>Integration is accomplished using a document type shell, which defines
the modules to be integrated and how they will be integrated. Integration
defines both what topic types and domains will be allowed in the document
type, and how the topic types will be allowed to nest.</p>
<p>The module for a specific type should contain only the declarations for
elements and attributes <?Pub Caret?>that are unique to that type, and should
not embed any other modules. The shell should contain no markup declarations,
and should directly reference all the modules it requires. Nesting shells
or nesting modules (having shells that embed other shells, or modules that
embed other modules) is discouraged since it adds complexity and may break
some tools. Sharing between document types should be accomplished through
shared modules, not through direct reference to any other document type. Dependencies
between modules should be satisfied by the integrating shell, not through
the module itself.</p>
</body>
</topic>
<?Pub *0000001537?>
