<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN"
 "topic.dtd">
<topic id="interchange-and-interoperation-intro" rev="1.2.1" xml:lang="en-US">
 <title>Interchange and interoperation</title>
 <shortdesc>All conforming DITA elements and attributes are derived from a set of base element and
  attribute types. Because all DITA specializations are created from the same base elements, no
  specialization can so depart from the base elements so that it cannot be generalized by parsers
  and processors back to a base element. Blind interchange and routine interoperation derive from
  this inheritance architecture.</shortdesc>
 <body>
  <p><draft-comment author="Kristen James Eberlein" importance="" rev="6 March 2010">This topic was
    removed from the "Introduction to DITA" section. We need to ensure that all relevant content in
    this topic is covered in the applicable section.</draft-comment>All conforming DITA content can
   be understood in terms of the base types. This ensures that the following conditions can be
    met:<ul>
    <li>All DITA-aware processors can, at a minimum, provide default processing for all DITA
     content.</li>
    <li>Users can understand any DITA map or topic, no matter how specialized, in terms of its base
     types.</li>
    <li >Two DITA users do not need to have advance knowledge of each other's processing
     environments nor do they need to have previously-agreed upon common specializations. As long as
     they exchange the doctypes for any specializations, generalization can occur.</li>
   </ul></p>
  <p>Through use of a common specification, DITA content owners can benefit from industry support,
   interoperability, and reuse of community contributions.</p>
  <?Pub Caret?>
 </body>
</topic>
<?Pub *0000001559?>
