<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2008, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN"
 "concept.dtd">
<concept id="intro_specialization" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Specialization</title>
<shortdesc>Put your short description here; used for first paragraph
and abstract.</shortdesc>
<conbody>
<p><draft-comment author="Kristen James Eberlein" rev="1 December 2009">Content
moved from the overly-long and over-loaded "Introduction to DITA"
topic.<?Pub Caret?></draft-comment>Specialization permits the creation
of new DITA elements that address the specific requirements of a business
or industry, while still sharing the common output transformations
and design rules that were developed for the more general types and
domains. This is similar to how classes in an object-oriented system
inherit the methods of ancestor classes. The implementation of specialization-specific
processing is generally done through the extension of existing processing
rather than through complete re-implementation of all required processing.
DITA's specialization architecture is similar to object-oriented systems
where specialized types can inherit the semantics and, by implication,
the processing of their base types.</p>
<p>DITA imposes a set of constraints on extension that ensures that
all conforming DITA content can meaningfully interoperate with all
other conforming DITA content and DITA-aware processors. In particular,
there is a common, invariant, mandatory base that all conforming DITA
content can be understood and processed in terms of, regardless of
how specialized that content is. </p>
<p>The specialization feature of DITA enables satisfaction of local
information structuring and modeling requirements while enabling blind
interchange of content and direct reuse of existing DITA-aware processing
for specialized content. The DITA specialization feature enables the
creation of new topic types, new map types, and new domain-specific
element types for use within other map and topic types. </p>
<p>The DITA standard populates the DITA model with an extensible hierarchy
of standard map, topic, and domain types.</p>
</conbody>
</concept>
<?Pub *0000002214?>
