<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE learningAssessment PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Learning Assessment//EN"
 "learningAssessment.dtd">
<learningAssessment id="testAssess">
<title>Quiz: Problems with unstructured content</title>
<shortdesc>Check your understanding of the concepts presented in this segment
about the problems with unstructured content.</shortdesc>
<learningAssessmentbody>
<lcInteraction>
<!--True - False Interaction                    -->
<lcTrueFalse id="pus_tf1">
<title>True - False: Structured vs Unstructured Content</title>
<lcQuestion>Unstructured content serves all writing communication purposes.</lcQuestion>
<lcAnswerOptionGroup>
<lcAnswerOption>
<lcAnswerContent>True</lcAnswerContent>
<lcFeedback>No, what about if you were being held accountable for the master
of very specific details?</lcFeedback>
</lcAnswerOption>
<lcAnswerOption>
<lcAnswerContent>False</lcAnswerContent>
<lcCorrectResponse/>
<lcFeedback>Yes, communication in written form has many purposes and therefore
might need the support of either structured or unstructured techniques.</lcFeedback>
</lcAnswerOption>
</lcAnswerOptionGroup>
</lcTrueFalse>
<!--Single select Interaction                    -->
<lcSingleSelect id="pus_singleselect">
<title>Multiple Choice: Problems with Unstructured Content</title>
<lcQuestion>Which one of the following would be considered problems encountered
when using unstructured content?</lcQuestion>
<lcAnswerOptionGroup>
<lcAnswerOption>
<lcAnswerContent>Difficult reuse of content.</lcAnswerContent>
<lcFeedback>Yes, content reuse is easier when content is in a predetermined
organization.</lcFeedback>
</lcAnswerOption>
<lcAnswerOption>
<lcAnswerContent>Inconsistent reader experience with content.</lcAnswerContent>
<lcCorrectResponse/>
<lcFeedback>Yes, when the writing is presented in an unstructured way, reader
experience with it can vary widely. </lcFeedback>
</lcAnswerOption>
<lcAnswerOption>
<lcAnswerContent>Not conducive to writing projects that involve multiple authors.</lcAnswerContent>
<lcFeedback>Correct, it is better if multiple authors have the same organization
to write to.</lcFeedback>
</lcAnswerOption>
<lcAnswerOption>
<lcAnswerContent>The author William Faulkner would have not been so effective
with his stream of consciousness writing style.</lcAnswerContent>
<lcFeedback>No, William Faulkner's style is all about unstructured content.
 (But seeing an attempt at using markup tags in <i>The Sound and the Fury</i> might
be amusing.)</lcFeedback>
</lcAnswerOption>
</lcAnswerOptionGroup>
</lcSingleSelect>
</lcInteraction>
</learningAssessmentbody>
</learningAssessment>
