<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2008, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE learningContent PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Learning Content//EN"
 "learningContent.dtd">
<learningContent id="WHYDITA" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Why DITA for learning and training content?</title>
<shortdesc>Using DITA to create a model for learning content lets
you take advantage of the benefits of structured content in creating
learning and training deliverables, and reusing learning and training
content with others.</shortdesc>
<learningContentbody>
<lcIntro> <p>There are many aspects to the DITA specification that
make it suitable for structuring learning content. As an evolving
specification, extending it to areas like the learning industry not
only helps learning professionals but contributes to DITA's overall
success. Some of the aspects of the DITA spec that make it appropriate
for learning include a modular and topic-based architecture that allows
for specialization and standard processing, to name a few.</p> </lcIntro>
<section><title>Why DITA in general</title><p>DITA is a data model
for authoring and publishing topic-based content. </p><p>DITA's modular
architecture supports efficient reuse of content at the word, phrase,
or topic level. DITA also offers "specialization," which allows you
to develop new elements and content models that are based on core
DITA elements and content models. This helps you to customize DITA
to support particular types of content while continuing to take advantage
of the base DITA tools and transformations. For learning content,
this change to specialization enables the creation of specific content
structures that can ensure that the right learners get the right information
at the right time. </p></section>
<section><title>Topic-based DITA offers flexibility in content organization</title><p>DITA
is a topic-based architecture. It allows you to order, reorder, and
nest topics to create any kind of information product. Since content
is not all tied together in a single "book" but rather captured in
chunks, using modular, topic-based chunks in various circumstances
is easy to accommodate.</p></section>
<section><title>DITA's modularity allows for reuse</title><p>Topics
can be used in more than one deliverable at once, independently from
other topics. The real advantage here, however, is that even though
content is being used in more than one instance, the content itself
remains as an independent unit. Modification of that content need
only happen in one place to accommodate all the instances of the appearance
of that content.</p></section>
<section><title>DITA helps you save some style sheet creation time</title><p>A
virtue of DITA specialization is that new elements and topic types
can be processed using DITA's standard processing. Standard processing
means even though you have created "specializations," you can still
process the specialized content without any or much additional stylesheet
work. Of course, you may need to create specialized processing, to
support some specialized types of content used in learning and training,
such as assessment interactions.</p></section>
<section><title>Why DITA for Learning?</title><p>The ability to have
a standard definition for educational information is appealing because
it allows you to:</p><ul>
<li>Minimize duplicate effort (reuse)</li>
<li>Use material from alternate sources (repurpose)</li>
<li>Supply course topics to alternate deliverables (repurpose)</li>
<li>Build to company-wide standardized methods</li>
<li>Create custom courses quickly</li>
</ul><p>Providing meaningful semantics at a word, topic, or section
level can help preserve the instructional value of content. Reuse
in a learning context will depend heavily on the model&apos;s ability
to preserve this value regardless of mode of delivery. Using DITA's
specialization capabilities, you can preserve new elements that describe
what content means to a learner at a content level regardless of delivery
vehicle.</p><p>Learning models and best practices<?Pub Caret?> are
an evolving science. Using DITA for learning allows for the model
to extend itself to evolving circumstances and best practices. Following
DITA guidelines will ensure content is never locked into a proprietary
format and can always be repurposed and reprocessed.</p><p>DITA for
learning provides a model for structuring content. As companies depend
more heavily on subject matter experts and not instructional designers
to produce content, having a content model will help provide a solid
structure on which to build training and learning content.</p></section>
</learningContentbody>
</learningContent>
<?Pub *0000004702?>
