<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN"
 "reference.dtd">
<?Pub Sty _display FontColor="red"?>
<?Pub Inc?>
<!-- This file is part of the DITA learning and training content 
     specialization working design. It is a work-in-progress by
     the OASIS DITA learning and training content specialization 
     sub-committee.-->
<!-- (C) Copyright OASIS Open 2007 All Rights Reserved. -->
<reference id="dita_learning_topics" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Overview</title>
<shortdesc>The DITA Learning and Training specialization builds on past work
on topic-based content, reusable learning objects, and the learning content
types needed to support them.</shortdesc>
<refbody>
<section><title>Problem</title>
<p>Today's learners confront a complex world with many inter-related
bits and pieces of information, many different ways to access that information,
and a strong need to identify the connection points, the objectives, and the
context for what to know and what to learn. </p><p>In this
environment, developers of learning and training content face many challenges,
including:<ul>
<li>How to find the context for developing and delivering the right content
to the right person at the right time </li>
<li>How to identify the learning goals and objectives</li>
<li>Who and how many are the audiences </li>
<li>How to pull together and integrate content from many different sources
and content providers </li>
<li>How to enable customers and partners to add, integrate, assemble, and
deliver their own content</li>
</ul></p><p>These key challenges and issues for delivery of learning and training
content mirror long-standing pain points and requirements for content delivery
in general. Content consumers value consistency of content and learning experiences.
They desire management of content to make it shareable across and within teams.
They seek to simplify the information needed to support the complex environments.
Finally, they want a content development process that can enable the assembly
and delivery of custom content that addresses specific learning contexts and
use cases.</p></section>
<section> <title>Objectives of the DITA learning and training content specialization</title><p>The
DITA Learning specialization has the following objectives: <ol>
<li>Provide a general top-level design for structured, intent-based authoring
of learning content with good learning architecture, following DITA principles
and best practices.  <p>Some specifics of good DITA design for learning content
include: <ol>
<li>offers a starter set of specialized topic types that support structured,
intent-based authoring of content for learning and training, including assessments</li>
<li>provides a map domain for structuring the specialized learning topics
as reusable learning objects, and for managing the linking and relationships
among them</li>
<li>offers basic map-driven processing to support topic linking, relationships,
and simple sequencing</li>
<li>includes a starter set of commonly-used learning interactions, for use
in testing and assessment</li>
<li>provides support for learning metadata based on the IEEE standard for
learning objects metadata (LOM), for use in both topics and maps</li>
</ol> </p> </li>
<li>Establish guidelines that promote best practices for applying standard
DITA approaches to learning content, which include: <ol>
<li>separation of presentation and content (as much as possible)</li>
<li>separation of content and context</li>
<li>single sourcing, repurposing, and reuse</li>
</ol> </li>
<li>Provide basic support for processing DITA content for general delivery
as learning and training, including print and presentation delivery to support
instructor-led training (ILT) and web delivery for distance learning. </li>
<li>Provide a framework for developing targeted support for processing DITA
learning content for delivery with standards-based learning, specifically
targeting SCORM. Extend DITA processing to support basic SCORM packaging and
required SCORM LMS runtime behaviors. Build on best practices for behaviors
to drive and present the interactions. </li>
<li>Build on existing DITA infrastructures as much as possible, so learning
content developers do not have to start from scratch.</li>
</ol> </p> 
<note>Simply using the content models described in this specification, of course, does not ensure quality learning content. Quality learning content only results from good instructional design and in-depth learning needs analysis. </note></section>
<section> <title>Use cases</title><p>Some use cases for using DITA for learning
and training content include the following.</p><dl><dlentry>
<dt>Enable indexing, searching, and retrieval of learning content</dt>
<dd>By structuring content with DITA topics and maps as self-contained learning
objects matched with appropriate DITA metadata, it is possible to enable fast
index, search, and retrieval of learning content that meets specific learning
goals and objectives.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>Creating custom courses quickly</dt>
<dd>A company has a large inventory of topic-based content that is used to
provide technical and troubleshooting information about a set of componentized
software products. It desires to enable field engineers to quickly identify
technical content that is suitable for providing on-site training. With DITA
learning topics and maps, the field engineers are able to quickly identify
the specific technical content that matches specific learning objectives,
and pull together the learning content that meets specific customer problems.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>Making technical content available for direct sharing and reuse in learning
and training</dt>
<dd>A DITA learning specialization makes it possible to define a context for
and directly assemble and use existing technical content for delivery as learning
and training. The DITA approach identifies consistent structures and patterns,
and leverages them to enable a consistent approach for sharing content across
teams. The result is much more opportunity to share content between different
providers and across areas of expertise, to learn from each other, and to
deliver content and the learning experience consistently. As a result, instead
of copy, paste, and make unique as the norm, we have write once and share
with others as the new norm.</dd>
</dlentry></dl></section>
</refbody>
<related-links>
<linklist><title>Resources</title>
<link href="http://www.clarktraining.com/content/articles/LearningObjects.pdf"
scope="external"><linktext>"Recycling Knowledge with Learning Objects," by
Ruth Clark.</linktext></link>
<link href="http://www.ibm.com/developerworks/xml/library/x-think21.html"
scope="external"><linktext>"Thinking XML: Learning Objects Metadata," by Uche
Obguji (IBM developerWorks, 2003).</linktext></link>
<link href="http://edutechwiki.unige.ch/en/DITA" scope="external"><linktext>"DITA
in Education," by Dan Schneider, EduTech Wiki.</linktext></link>
<link href="http://www.ibm.com/developerworks/xml/library/x-dita9a/" scope="external">
<linktext>"An XML-based information architecture for learning content," by
John Hunt and Robert Bernard (IBM developerWorks, 2005).</linktext></link>
<link href="http://www.ibm.com/developerworks/xml/library/x-dita7/" scope="external">
<linktext>"Design patterns for information architecture with DITA map domains,"
by Erik Hennum, Don Day, John Hunt, and Dave Schell (IBM developerWorks, 2004).</linktext>
</link>
</linklist>
</related-links>
</reference>
<?Pub *0000007140?>
