<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2008, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN"
 "reference.dtd">
<?Pub Sty _display FontColor="red"?>
<?Pub Inc?>
<!-- This file is part of the DITA learning and training content 
     specialization working design. It is a work-in-progress by
     the OASIS DITA learning and training content specialization 
     sub-committee.-->
<!-- (C) Copyright OASIS Open 2007 All Rights Reserved. -->
<reference id="dita_learning_topics" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Overview</title>
<shortdesc>The DITA learning and training specialization builds on
past work on topic-based content, reusable learning objects, and the
learning content types needed to support them.</shortdesc>
<refbody>
<section><?Pub Caret1?> <title>Use cases</title><p>Some use cases
for using DITA for learning and training content include the following.</p><dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>Enable indexing, searching, and retrieval of learning content</dt>
<dd>By structuring content with DITA topics and maps as self-contained
learning objects matched with appropriate DITA metadata, it is possible
to enable fast index, search, and retrieval of learning content that
meets specific learning goals and objectives.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>Creating custom courses quickly</dt>
<dd>A company has a large inventory of topic-based content that is
used to provide technical and troubleshooting information about a
set of componentized software products. It desires to enable field
engineers to quickly identify technical content that is suitable for
providing on-site training. With DITA learning topics and maps, the
field engineers are able to quickly identify the specific technical
content that matches specific learning objectives, and pull together
the learning content that meets specific customer problems.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>Making technical content available for direct sharing and reuse
in learning and training</dt>
<dd>A DITA learning specialization makes it possible to define a context
for and directly assemble and use existing technical content for delivery
as learning and training. The DITA approach identifies consistent
structures and patterns, and leverages them to enable a consistent
approach for sharing content across teams. The result is much more
opportunity to share content between different providers and across
areas of expertise, to learn from each other, and to deliver content
and the learning experience consistently. As a result, instead of
copy, paste, and make unique as the norm, we have write once and share
with others as the new norm.</dd>
</dlentry></dl></section>
</refbody>
<related-links>
<linklist><title>Resources</title>
<link
href="http://www.clarktraining.com/content/articles/LearningObjects.pdf"
scope="external"><linktext>"Recycling Knowledge with Learning Objects,"
by Ruth Clark.</linktext></link>
<link href="http://www.ibm.com/developerworks/xml/library/x-think21.html"
scope="external"><linktext>"Thinking XML: Learning Objects Metadata,"
by Uche Obguji (IBM developerWorks, 2003).</linktext></link>
<link href="http://edutechwiki.unige.ch/en/DITA" scope="external">
<linktext>"DITA in Education," by Dan Schneider, EduTech Wiki.</linktext>
</link>
<link href="http://www.ibm.com/developerworks/xml/library/x-dita9a/"
scope="external"><linktext>"An XML-based information architecture
for learning content," by John Hunt and Robert Bernard (IBM developerWorks,
2005).</linktext></link>
<link href="http://www.ibm.com/developerworks/xml/library/x-dita7/"
scope="external"><linktext>"Design patterns for information architecture
with DITA map domains," by Erik Hennum, Don Day, John Hunt, and Dave
Schell (IBM developerWorks, 2004).</linktext></link>
</linklist>
</related-links>
</reference>
<?Pub *0000003544?>
