<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2006, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE learningContent PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Learning Content//EN"
 "learningContent.dtd">
<learningContent id="ProbUnstruct">
<title>Problems with unstructured content</title>
<shortdesc>Although unstructured, or free form, writing is desirable when
you are writing poetry or fiction, its use is more problematic in technical
writing and training.</shortdesc>
<learningContentbody>
<section><p>Some problems with unstructured content include:</p><ul>
<li>Content reuse is difficult.</li>
<li>Reader experience with unstructured content can be inconsistent.</li>
<li>Automated processing of content is difficult.</li>
<li>Content is not conducive to interchange or interoperability among departments,
organizations, or businesses.</li>
</ul> </section>
<section><title>Content reuse is difficult</title><p>When reuse or recycling of
content is efficient and flexible, it offers great value in fast-paced and
ever-changing business environments. Just as we have learned to recycle paper,
glass and metal, more and more organizations are realizing and leveraging
the benefits of content reuse and repurposing.</p><p>However, when content is written
in free form mode, without the guidance of a predetermined structure, it is
difficult to reuse that content in other contexts. Free form, unstructured
information typically suits one purpose very well, the purpose in mind when
the content is first written. While it is certainly possible to write free
form content wi<?Pub Caret?>th multiple contexts in mind, it is difficult
to foresee and anticipate all future contexts where information might be used.</p><p>An
obvious analogy is the manufacture of a consumable product. How expensive
and cost prohibitive would it be if the steering wheel of each of a manufacture’s
car models was created without regard for specifications?</p></section>
<section> <title>Reader experience with unstructured content is inconsistent</title><p>The
readers’ experience is a direct result of how content is written. If the writing
is unstructured and inconsistent, different readers might understand the content
in different and inconsistent ways. When specific outcomes for information
transfer or training are required (content mastery confirmed by certification,
for example), consistently written and experienced content is mandatory.</p></section>
<section> <title>Automated processing of unstructured content is difficult</title><p>The
information age has brought more information to more people than ever before.
Information is not knowledge. Information overload is a problem solved by
careful attention to the purpose, filtering, organization, and accessibility
of information. When content is created with reuse in mind, it is more easily
manipulated and presented in a variety of forms, and thus is better able to
satisfy particular needs. </p><p>Structured content lends itself to the automated
production of predefined information deliverables. For example,  automated
publishing systems can be built to produce a variety of deliverables based
on the same content, but that content must assemble consistently and flexibly.</p></section>
<section> <title>Unstructured content does not lend itself to efficient or
effective data interchange or interoperability</title><p>As more and more
organizations cooperate and interoperate to satisfy a variety of business
or organization goals, it becomes more important for their content to be consistent,
complementary, and interoperable. When the content is unstructured, interchange
is more difficult become it requires more manual manipulation. Content structured
with interoperability in mind accomplishes this more easily and in a more
automated way.</p></section>
</learningContentbody>
</learningContent>
<?Pub *0000004486?>
