<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2008, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE learningContent PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Learning Content//EN"
 "learningContent.dtd">
<?Pub Sty _display FontColor="red"?>
<?Pub Inc?>
<learningContent id="LearnSpec" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>The DITA learning and training content specialization</title>
<shortdesc>This topic introduces the technical specifications for
DITA learning and training content</shortdesc>
<learningContentbody>
<lcIntro> <p>The DITA for learning technical specifications provide
a starting point for those professionals looking to take advantage
of DITA and apply it to learning. The specifications were drawn up
by a sub-committee of the OASIS DITA Technical Committee, composed
of DITA experts and learning professionals, all with a keen interest
in creating a specialization that addresses the unique needs of the
learning community. These specifications are not meant to be the end
point, but rather the launching pad and the foundation from which
DITA extends itself into the world of learning and training.</p> </lcIntro>
</learningContentbody>
<concept id="_2">
<title>Introducing the DITA for Learning Spec</title>
<conbody>
<section><title>The topic types</title><dl
conref="lc_spec_Summary_of_landt_designs.dita#lc_spec_summary_of_landt_designs/lt_topic_types">
<dlentry>
<dt></dt>
<dd></dd>
</dlentry></dl></section>
<section><title>The Interactions Domain</title><p>Although “Interactions”
were built to support the notion of assessment they have been created
as a DITA domain, and made available in the lcInteractions element
in learningAssessmentbody.</p><p>Because the interactions are defined
as a DITA domain, however, they can be made available for use in other
topic types, if that is desirable. For example, you could make lcInteractions
available for use in learning activities within the body of a learning
content topic.</p><p
conref="lc_spec_Summary_of_landt_designs.dita#lc_spec_summary_of_landt_designs/lt_interactions_domain"
></p></section>
<section><title>The learning map domain</title><p>The learning map
domain defines the following set of specialized topicref elements:<dl
conref="lc_spec_Summary_of_landt_designs.dita#lc_spec_summary_of_landt_designs/lt_map_domain">
<dlentry>
<dt></dt>
<dd></dd>
</dlentry></dl></p> <p>A DITA learning object in a map domain looks
like the following:</p><pre>
&lt;learningObject collection-type="sequence" href="top_Overview.dita" type="learningOverview">
  &lt;learningPlanRef href="learningPlan_topic.dita" type="learningPlan"/>
  &lt;learningOverviewRef href="lo_Overview.dita" type="learningOverview"/>
  &lt;learningContentRef href="lo_Content.dita" type="learningContent"/>
  &lt;learningPostAssessmentRef href="lo_Assess.dita" type="learningAssessment/">
  &lt;learningSummaryRef href="lo_Summary.dita" type="learningSummary"/>
&lt;learningObject>
</pre></section>
<section><title>Learning metadata</title><p>In addition to standard
DITA metadata, learning-specific metadata is also available for use
with learning topics and learning maps, through a DITA domain specialization.
This learning metadata follows the IEEE LOM standard for learning
objects metadata. </p> <p
conref="lc_spec_Summary_of_landt_designs.dita#lc_spec_summary_of_landt_designs/lt_lcLom"></p
><?Pub Caret1?><p
conref="lc_spec_Summary_of_landt_designs.dita#lc_spec_summary_of_landt_designs/lt_metadata_domain"
></p></section>
</conbody>
</concept>
</learningContent>
<?Pub *0000003345?>
