<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE learningContent PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Learning Content//EN"
 "learningContent.dtd">
<learningContent id="BeneStructLC">
<title>Benefits of structured content</title>
<shortdesc>What is structured content and how does it benefit the development
and delivery of learning content?</shortdesc>
<learningContentbody>
<lcChallenge><p>It is often wise to understand and
articulate why training developers or training organizations might move to
more structured writing environments. Seeing examples of how structures can
directly support learning makes this decision easier.</p></lcChallenge>
<section> <title>What is structured content?</title><p>Structured content
is content that adheres to a predefined organization. It is content that is
labeled or described by markup tags arranged in an organizational hierarchy.
Semantic tag names can be created to describe the content itself in a flexible
way, making the data between the tags self-describing. For example, it is
easy to deduce the purpose or intention of the following content between
the warning markup tags:</p><pre>
&lt;warning&gt;Do not attempt to apply power to the system in a damp 
environment.&lt;/warning&gt;
</pre> </section>
<section>  <title>Why XML?</title><p>XML offers a framework or foundation
for the creation of content and automated systems that manipulate that content.
XML does this by providing a syntax for the markup or classification of content
and for declaring the structure of that content. It does this in a very flexible
way, leaving the semantics of the markup and content structure definitions
to the designer of the content syntax. The benefits of such a framework include:
openness, extensibility, inter-operability and simplicity.</p></section>
<section> <title>Why use structured content for learning?</title><p>Learning
content has a different purpose than other, more general, content types, and
 therefore benefits from a structure definition and semantic markup created
in support of  that specific purpose. For example, you might want to intersperse
assessment interactions throughout the training content to strengthen and
enhance learning. Such assessments can validate the success (or failure) of
the learning and provide insights to effective remediation or review. Another
example is a learning objective structure. Such a structure formalizes the
purpose and focus of the learning content.</p><p>In short, structuring content
specifically for a learning experience supports successful  learning. </p> </section>
<section><title>What does a general structure for learning include?</title><p>A
generalized structure for learning includes the following components:<ul>
<li>Analysis of the training need</li>
<li>Statement of the learning objective and the criteria for achieving it</li>
<li>Introduction or overview of the learning content</li>
<li>Context for the learning information</li>
<li>The learning content itself</li>
<li>Summary of the learning content</li>
<li>Reinforcement of the learning content through practice, simulation, or
exercise</li>
<li>Assessment of achievement</li>
<li>Remediation and review of learning based on assessment results</li>
</ul></p><p>This structure suggests two types of information: the learning
content itself (informational components) and types that are in support of
that learning (instructional components). Writing to this structure promotes
instructional integrity.</p></section>
</learningContentbody>
</learningContent>
