<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN"
 "concept.dtd">
<concept id="linking-and-addressing-overview" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Linking and addressing</title>
<abstract>   <shortdesc>DITA depends heavily on links to establish
relationships among content components.    These links include references
from maps to topics, links among topics, content use-by-reference
   within topics and maps, links to images and other objects, and
cross references. All of these links depend either on the use of URI
references or on key-based addresses.</shortdesc><draft-comment
author="Kristen James Eberlein" rev="6 March 2010">This topic was
   removed from the "Introduction to DITA" section. We need to ensure
that all relevant content in    this topic is covered in the applicable
section.</draft-comment><draft-comment author="Kristen James Eberlein"
rev="5 March 2010">Comment from review #3:<p>[Jeff,     3 Jan 1010]
Is "hyperlink" the right term to use here? I think of a "hyperlink"
as something     that appears or which might appear in rendered output,
but not as the thing that is authored in     the DITA source. What
is authored are relationships. How those relationships are rendered
will     depend on the type of output, the processor that is used,
and how the processing has been     customized, probably through the
use of a stylesheet.</p></draft-comment></abstract>
<conbody>
<section>    <title>Types of DITA links</title><p>DITA defines two
types of link: navigation links and use-by-reference links. <draft-comment
author="Kristen James Eberlein" rev="5 March 2010">Comment from review
#3:<p>[MPriestley 17       December 2009] image and object seem to
belong in use-by-reference cat, and topicref is arguable</p></draft-comment><dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>Navigation links</dt>
<dd>        <p>Navigation links enable readers to navigate from one
location to another within a body of         content. DITA provides
the following base element types that are primarily or exclusively
        navigating in this manner:<dl><dlentry>
<dt>&lt;topicref></dt><?Pub Caret -3?>
<dd>Used within DITA maps to link to DITA topics, subordinate maps,
or non-DITA            resources.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>&lt;reltable></dt>
<dd>Used within DITA maps to relate sets of topics to each other.
Each row in the            relationship table defines <ph >relationships
(generally expressed as hyperlinks)</ph> among two or more sets of
topics or non-DITA resources.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>&lt;navref></dt>
<dd>Used within DITA maps to link to standalone maps whose navigation
structures should be            integrated with the referencing map
after the referencing map is processed.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>&lt;link></dt>
<dd>Used within DITA topics to create links to other related topics<ph
> or             non-DITA resources.</ph></dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>&lt;xref></dt>
<dd>Used within DITA topics to create inline links to other topics
or elements. </dd>
<dd>            <draft-comment author="Kristen James Eberlein"
rev="5 March 2010">Comment from review              #3:<p>[MPriestley
17 December 2009] Under "Navigation links", xref item: may also be
             resolved to inline, for example when specialized to coderef </p></draft-comment> 
         </dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>&lt;image></dt>
<dd>Used within DITA topics or within certain elements in DITA maps
to link to static            media objects.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>&lt;object></dt>
<dd>Used within DITA topics or within certain elements in DITA maps
to link to static or            interactive media objects.</dd>
</dlentry></dl></p>       </dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>Use-by-reference links</dt>
<dd>        <p>Use-by-reference links relate one element (the referencing
element) to another element         (the referenced element). The
referenced element acts as the effective value or effective      
  content of the referencing element, with the result being as if
the referenced element had         occurred at the point of reference.
Some links, in particular &lt;topicref> elements, can         serve
as both navigation links and use-by-reference links depending on how
they are         processed; for example, they might be resolved into
content when transformed to PDF, but         they might be resolved
to links when transformed to HTML.</p>        <p>Use-by-reference
links are defined primarily through the DITA content reference (conref)
        mechanism. Almost any element can be made into a use-by-reference
link. See <xref format="dita" href="conref.dita"></xref><draft-comment
author="Kristen James Eberlein" rev="5 March 2010">Comment from review
#3:<p>[MPriestley 17 December 2009] Generally this           whole
section is problematic, just because most things can be resolved into
either content           or a link (conref excepted).</p></draft-comment>.</p> 
     </dd>
</dlentry></dl></p>    <p>Some elements, including &lt;term>, &lt;keyword>,
and &lt;ph>, may use the @keyref attribute     and key-based addressing
to become navigation links to other DITA elements or non-DITA    
resources, to get their effective content from a key definition, or
both.</p>   </section>
<section>    <title>Types of DITA addressing</title>    <p>DITA defines
two addressing mechanisms for use by DITA links: URI-based addresses
and     key-based addresses.<dl><dlentry>
<dt>URI-based addresses</dt>
<dd>URI-based addresses are used to point directly to DITA or non-DITA
resources; they use a        DITA-specific fragment-identifier syntax
to address elements within DITA topics and maps.       </dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>key-based addresses</dt>
<dd>Key-based addresses are used to point indirectly to DITA or non-DITA
resources. Keys are        defined within DITA maps. Key definitions
bind key names to resources; these resources can be        resources
addressed by URI reference, elements within the content of the key
definition        itself, or both. Because keys are defined within
DITA maps, the same key name may have        different bindings in
different DITA maps. This allows DITA topics and DITA maps to reference
       keys that can resolve to different targets in the context of
different root DITA maps. This        mechanism can be used both for
navigation links and content use-by-reference links, so that a   
    single topic or subordinate DITA map can be used in different
contexts without modification        or the need for conditional markup
and processing.</dd>
</dlentry></dl></p>   </section>
</conbody>
<related-links>
<link href="ditaaddressing.dita#id"></link>
<link href="ditalinking.dita#ditalinking"></link>
</related-links>
</concept>
