<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="condprocatt" >
    <title>Select attributes</title>
    <conbody>
        <p>For a topic or topicref, the audience, platform, and product metadata can be expressed
            with attributes on the topic or topicref element or with elements within the topic
            prolog or topicmeta element. While the metadata elements are more expressive, the
            meaning of the values is the same, and can be used in coordination: for example, the
            prolog elements can fully define the audiences for a topic, and then metadata attributes
            can be used within the content to identify parts that apply to only some of those
            audiences.</p>
        <dl>
            <dlentry>
                <dt>audience</dt>
                <dd>
                    <p>The values in the audience attribute may also be used to reference a more
                        complete description of an audience in an audience element. Use the name of
                        the audience in the audience element when referring to the same audience in
                        an audience attribute.</p>
                    <p>The audience attribute takes a space-delimited list of values, which may or
                        may not match the name value of any audience elements.</p>
                </dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry>
                <dt>platform</dt>
                <dd>The platform might be the operating system, hardware, or other environment. This
                    attribute is equivalent to the platform element for the topic metadata.</dd>
                <dd>
                    <p>The platform attribute takes a space-delimited list of values, which may or
                        may not match the content of a platform element in the prolog.</p>
                </dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry>
                <dt>product</dt>
                <dd>The product or component name, version, brand, or internal code or number. This
                    attribute is equivalent to the prodinfo element for the topic metadata.</dd>
                <dd>
                    <p>The product attribute takes a space-delimited list of values, which may or
                        may not match the value of the prodname element in the prolog.</p>
                </dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry>
                <dt>rev</dt>
                <dd>The identifier for the revision level. For example, if a paragraph was changed
                    or added during revision 1.1, the rev attribute might contain the value "1.1".
                </dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry>
                <dt>otherprops</dt>
                <dd>A catch-all for metadata qualification values about the content. This attribute
                    is equivalent to the othermeta element for the topic metadata. </dd>
                <dd>
                    <p>The attribute takes a space-delimited list of values, which may or may not
                        match the values of othermeta elements in the prolog. </p>
                    <p>For example, a simple otherprops value list: <codeph>&lt;codeblock
                            otherprops="java cpp"></codeph></p>
                    <p><draft-comment>MP: deprecated grouped value syntax per TC meeting
                            2007/01/02</draft-comment>The attribute can also take labelled groups of
                        values, but this syntax is deprecated in DITA 1.1 in favor of attribute
                        specialization. The labelled group syntax is similar to the generalized
                        attribute syntax and may cause confusion for processors. A labelled group
                        consists of a string value followed by an open parenthesis followed by one
                        or more space-delimited values followed by a close parenthesis. The simple
                        format is sufficient when an information set requires only one additional
                        metadata axis, in addition to the base metadata attributes of product,
                        platform, and audience. The full format is similar to attribute
                        specialization in that it allows two or more additional metadata axes. For
                        example, a complex otherprops value list: <codeph>&lt;codeblock
                            otherprops="proglang(java cpp) commentformat(javadoc
                        html)"></codeph></p>
                </dd>
            </dlentry>
            <dlentry>
                <dt>props</dt>
                <dd>A generic attribute for conditional processing values. Starting with DITA 1.1,
                    the props attribute can be specialized to create new conditional processing
                    attributes.</dd>
            </dlentry>
        </dl>
    </conbody>
</concept>
