<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN"
 "concept.dtd">
<concept id="separation_of_content_and_presentation" xml:lang="en-us">
 <title>Separation of content and presentation</title>
 <shortdesc>Because DITA is designed to enable the publication of content to any number of different
  formats, it must maintain as complete a separation between content and presentation as possible.
  This means that DITA processors, rather than the DITA standard, are responsible for defining the
  details of the presentations that those processors produce.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <draft-comment author="Kristen James Eberlein" rev="6 March 2010">This topic was removed from the
   "Introduction to DITA" section. We need to ensure that all relevant content in this topic is
   covered in the applicable section.</draft-comment>
  <p>The DITA specification does not define or require any particular presentation form, format, or
   style, beyond certain default presentation expectations that are necessary to foster reasonable
   consistency across different implementations of common presentation targets, such as HTML and
   PDF.</p>
  <p>DITA provides some means, <ph >such as the @outputclass attribute</ph>, by which
   authors can indicate specific presentation intents, but in general the DITA standard expects
   presentation details to be a matter of separately-specified style that is applied to
   semantically-tagged content. This separation of content and presentation is essential to ensuring
   that DITA content is inherently reusable in a wide variety of contexts and for a wide variety of
   presentation and delivery environments.</p>
  <draft-comment author="Kristen James Eberlein" rev="7 March 2010">The following content was
   relocated from topicdefined.dita:<p >There is no single, DITA-defined way to go from
    maps and topics to particular deliverables, e.g., HTML for Web delivery, PDF for print or online
    delivery, and so on. Producing specific types of deliverables from DITA content is processor and
    implementation dependent.</p></draft-comment>
 </conbody>
</concept>
<?Pub Caret?>
<?Pub *0000001520?>
