<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2009, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topics-and-maps"  xml:lang="en-US">
<title>Topics and maps</title>
<abstract>   <!-- [Eberlein, 8 March 2010] The following content moved to applicable topics: "DITA markup, "The topic 
as the basic unit of information," and "Definition of DITA maps."--><shortdesc>Topics and maps are the basic building blocks of the Darwin Information Typing    Architecture (DITA). A DITA topic is a titled unit of information that <ph >typically</ph> can be understood in isolation and used in multiple contexts. A DITA map is a    set of hyperlinks that organize topics and other resources into structured collections of    information; it also provides the context in which keys are defined and resolved.</shortdesc><draft-comment author="Kristen James Eberlein" rev="6 March 2010">This topic was removed from the    "Introduction to DITA" section. We need to ensure that all relevant content in this topic is    covered in the applicable section.</draft-comment></abstract>
<body>
<!-- [Eberlein, 8 March 2010] The following <p> moved to the "DITA markup" topic.-->
<p>DITA topics can be used and published individually; for example, one can represent an entire    deliverable as a single DITA document that consists of a root topic and nested topics. However,    the power of DITA is most fully realized by storing each DITA topic in a separate XML document    and using DITA maps to organize how topics are combined for delivery. This enables a clear    separation between how topics are authored and stored and how topics are organized for    delivery.</p>
<!-- [Eberlein, 8 March 2010] Most of the following <p> is already addressed in "Definition of DITA maps"; added one 
sentence to "Definition of DITA maps." -->
<p>A DITA map is a set of references, each of which points to a topic, a non-DITA resource, or another DITA map. These references are created by &lt;topicref> elements. The &lt;topicref> elements in a map can be organized into hierarchies in order to represent a specific order of navigation or presentation. Because DITA maps use references to include and organize DITA topics, there can be any number of maps applied to the same set of topics.</p>
<!-- [Eberlein, 8 March 2010] The following <p> moved to the "Definition of DITA maps" topic.-->
<p><ph >DITA maps often represent a single deliverable, for example, a specific Web     site, a printed publication, or the online help for a product. DITA maps also can be     subcomponents for a single deliverable, for example, a DITA map might contain the content for a     chapter in a printed publication or the troubleshooting information for an online help     system.</ph> The DITA specification provides specialized map types; book maps represent printed    publications, subject scheme maps represent taxonomic or ontological classifications, and    learning maps represent formal units of instruction and assessment. However, these map types are    only a starter set of map types reflecting well-defined requirements. The set of possible map    types is unbounded.</p>
<!-- [Eberlein, 8 March 2010] The relevant (non-redundant) parts of the following <p> have been moved to the 
"Definition of DITA maps" topic.-->
<p><ph >DITA maps organize topics into sequences and hierarchies.</ph> DITA maps also    can define keys and establish link relationships. You can use a &lt;topicref> or &lt;keydef>    element to define a key which binds a key name to a specified resource. <ph >You also     can use a relationship table to associate topics with each other based on membership in the same     row; for example, you can associate task topics with supporting concept and reference     topics.</ph> During processing, these link relationships can be rendered in different ways,    although they typically result in lists of "Related topics" or "For more information" links. Like    many aspects of DITA, the details about how such linking relationships are presented is    determined by the DITA processor.<draft-comment author="Kristen James Eberlein" rev="5 March 2010">Comment from review #3:<p>[Jeff,     3 Jan 2010] Also in the 4th [above] paragraph we talk about keys and link relationships     together. It makes them sound as if they were the same thing or at least related. It would be     better to talk about them separately. When it comes to link relationships, it might be better to     call this "linking relationships" and make it clear that the sequence and hierarchy as well as     relationship tables can be used to establish linking relationships.</p></draft-comment></p><?Pub Caret -1?>
<!-- [Eberlein, 8 March 2010] The following content moved to the "DITA markup topic" -->
<p>DITA topics and maps are XML documents that conform to the XML specification. As such, they can    be viewed, edited, validated, and processed with standard XML tools, although some DITA-specific    features, such as content reference, key reference, and specialization require DITA-specific    processing for full implementation and validation.</p>
</body>
</topic>
<?Pub *0000005309?>
