<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2005, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN"
 "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topics"  xml:lang="en-us">
 <title>What are topics?</title>
 <shortdesc>A topic is a unit of information with a title and some form of content, short enough to
  be specific to a single subject or answer a single question, but long enough to make sense on its
  own and be authored as a unit.</shortdesc>
 <body>
  <p><draft-comment>JTH Move some of this to the technical communication
    specialization.</draft-comment>In DITA, a topic is the basic unit of authoring and of reuse. An
   XML document may contain one topic or multiple topics, and a document type may support authoring
   one or many kinds of topics. But regardless of where they occur, all DITA topics have the same
   basic structure and capabilities. Books, PDF files, Websites, and help sets, for example, can all
   be constructed from the same set of underlying topic content, although there may be some topics
   that are unique to a particular deliverable, and the organization of topics may differ to take
   advantage of the unique capabilities of each delivery mechanism.</p>
  <p><draft-comment>updated per list discussion after 2007/01/02 TC meeting</draft-comment>DITA
   topics can be as small as a title that organizes other subtopics or links or as large as a few
   pages or screens of content. Larger units of content, such as complex reference documents or book
   chapters, can be created by nesting topics, either directly in a single document<?Pub Caret?> or
   indirectly through references in a DITA map. Nested DITA topics can be used to accommodate the
   migration of legacy non-topic-oriented content, as well as information with specific authoring
   requirements, such as marketing material or API reference documents. </p>
  <p>Reference information is inherently topic-oriented, since it requires information to be modular
   and self-contained for the sake of retrievability.</p>
  <p>Topic-oriented authoring for conceptual and task information has its roots in Minimalism, an
   instructional design technique first espoused by John Carroll. The minimalist approach to
   information design focusses on identifying the smallest amount of instruction that allows for the
   successful completion of a task, or that provides basic knowledge of a concept. Readers have
   goals, and they want to achieve those goals as quickly as possible. Generally, readers don't want
   to read information just for the pleasure of reading. They are reading to learn or to do
   something.</p>
  <p> Some of the key principles of Minimalism are: <ul>
    <li>Support actions. Let people act as they learn, and let them pursue the goals they want to
     accomplish. </li>
    <li>Document tasks, not tools or functions. </li>
    <li>Help readers anticipate and avoid errors. </li>
    <li>Let readers explore. They don't need explained what they can discover for themselves. </li>
   </ul></p>
  <p>While DITA's topic-oriented approach has its roots in instructional design, the topic-based
   approach can be useful for any information that has human readers and a consistent structure.</p>
 </body>
</topic>
<?Pub *0000003088?>
