<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2008, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN"
 "concept.dtd">
<?Pub Inc?>
<concept id="conceptId" xml:lang="en-us">
 <title>DITA document types and modules</title>
 <shortdesc >DITA is unlike most other XML standards. While the DITA standard includes a
  starter set of DITA document types, these document types are not definitive or exhaustive. Instead
  the DITA standard defines design patterns that can be used to construct new use-case-specific DITA
  document types.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p ><draft-comment author="Kristen James Eberlein" importance="" rev="6 March 2010"
    >This topic was removed from the "Introduction to DITA" section. We need to ensure that all
    relevant content in this topic is covered in the applicable section.</draft-comment>DITA
   document types are implemented using DITA document type shells, which may be either DTD or XSD
   based. The document type shells simply include vocabulary and constraint modules, which provide
   all of the actual declarations that make up the DITA document type. Thus DITA document types are
   assembled using standard DITA-defined and non-standard, but DITA-conforming, declaration
   modules.</p>
  <p >Because there is no single definitive set of DITA document types, DITA should be
   viewed as a standardized application framework that provides the building blocks and extension
   rules by which DITA-based applications can be constructed that ensure the interchange and
   interoperability of all DITA conforming documents.</p>
 </conbody>
 <?Pub Caret1?>
</concept>
<?Pub *0000001437?>
