<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN"
 "reference.dtd">
<?Pub Sty _display FontColor="red"?>
<reference id="resourceid" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>resourceid</title>
<shortdesc>The &lt;<keyword>resourceid</keyword>> element provides an identifier for applications
    that <ph rev="DITA1.3 proposal-13008">must use their own identifier scheme, such as
      context-sensitive help systems and databases.</ph></shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>resourceid</indexterm><indexterm>prolog elements<indexterm>resourceid</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<refbody>
<section rev="DITA1.3 proposal-13008">
      <p>Multiple @appid values may be associated with a single @appname value, and multiple
        @appname values may be associated with a single @appid value. Because the values for the
        @appid and @appname attributes work in combination to specify a specific ID for a specific
        application, each combination of values for the @appid and @appname attributes
          <keyword>should</keyword> be unique.</p>
      <p>Versions of DITA before 1.3 used the @id attribute on the &lt;resourceid> element to
        specify an ID for an external application. This use of the @id attribute is deprecated in
        favor of using the @appid attribute.</p>
    </section>
<section
conref="../../common/commonNavLibraryTable.dita#contentmodel-resourceid/contains"
id="contains" otherprops="contains">    <title>Contains</title>  
 <p>The content model of this element may differ based on where it
is used. Content model     information is located here: <xref
keyref="resourceid-contains"></xref></p>   </section>
<section
conref="../../common/commonNavLibraryTable.dita#contentmodel-resourceid/containedby"
id="containedby" otherprops="containedby">    <title>Contained By</title> 
  <p>The parents of this element may differ based on where it is used.
Content model information is     located here: <xref
keyref="resourceid-contained-by"></xref></p>   </section>
<section id="inheritance" otherprops="inheritance">    <title>Inheritance</title> 
  <p>- topic/resourceid </p>   </section>
<example id="example" rev="DITA1.3 proposal-13008">
      <title>Example</title>
      <p>In the following example, a topic is referenced by three applications.</p>
      <codeblock>&lt;prolog>
  &lt;resourceid appid="sqlid00375" 
            appname="dbaccess"/>
  &lt;resourceid appid="sample" 
            appname="otherApp1"/>
  &lt;resourceid appid="sample" 
            appname="otherApp2"/>
&lt;/prolog></codeblock>
      <p>A database application with a value of "dbaccess" for the @appname attribute references the
        topic using the ID "sqlid00375". Two other applications use the ID "sample"; differing
        values for the @appname attribute distinguish between these two applications and the
        &lt;resourceid> elements that are associated with them.</p>
      <p>If this topic is reused by another author, that author may associate additional
        &lt;resourceid> elements with the topic by placing them in the map. For example, the
        following entry in the &lt;topicmeta> indicates that (in addition to the values already
        specified in the topic), an application with the value of "Author-B-App" references the
        topic using the ID
        "FunNewId":<codeblock>&lt;topicref href="sample.dita">
  &lt;topicmeta>
    &lt;navtitle>Sample: adding a resourceid externally&lt;/navtitle>
    &lt;resourceid appname="Author-B-App" appid="FunNewId"/>
  &lt;/topicmeta>
&lt;/topicref></codeblock></p>
      <?Pub Caret -1?>
    </example>
<section id="attributes">    <title>Attributes</title>    <simpletable
id="resourceid_attr" relcolwidth="2* 3* 1* 1* 1*">
<sthead>
<stentry>Name</stentry>
<stentry>Description</stentry>
<stentry>Data Type</stentry>
<stentry>Default Value</stentry>
<stentry>Required?</stentry>
</sthead>
  <strow rev="DITA1.3 proposal-13008" id="id-resourceid"> 
    <stentry>id</stentry> 
    <stentry>
            <p rev="DITA1.3 proposal-13008">Before DITA 1.3, this attribute specified a value used
              by a specific application to identify the topic. That usage is deprecated in favor of
              using the @appid attribute.</p>
          </stentry> 
    <stentry>CDATA</stentry> 
    <stentry rev="DITA1.3 proposal-13008">#IMPLIED</stentry> 
    <stentry rev="DITA1.3 proposal-13008">No</stentry> 
  </strow>
<strow conref="../../common/commonLRdefs.dita#commonLRdefs/conref">
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
</strow>
  <strow id="appname"> 
    <stentry>appname</stentry> 
    <stentry rev="DITA1.3 proposal-13008">A name for the external application that references the
      topic.</stentry> 
    <stentry>CDATA</stentry> 
    <stentry>#IMPLIED</stentry> 
    <stentry>No</stentry> 
  </strow>
  <strow rev="DITA1.3 proposal-13008">
    <stentry>appid</stentry>
    <stentry>An ID used by an application to identify the topic.</stentry>
    <stentry>CDATA</stentry>
    <stentry>#IMPLIED</stentry>
    <stentry>No</stentry>
  </strow>
<strow conref="../../common/commonLRdefs.dita#commonLRdefs/select-atts">
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
</strow>
<strow
conref="../../common/commonLRdefs.dita#commonLRdefs/localization-atts">
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
</strow>
<strow conref="../../common/commonLRdefs.dita#commonLRdefs/global-atts">
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
</strow>
<strow conref="../../common/commonLRdefs.dita#commonLRdefs/classonly">
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
</strow>
</simpletable>   </section>
</refbody>
</reference>
<?Pub *0000003562?>
