<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN"
 "reference.dtd">
<?Pub Sty _display FontColor="red"?>
<reference id="shortdesc" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>shortdesc</title>
<shortdesc>The short description (&lt;<keyword>shortdesc</keyword>&gt;)
element occurs between the topic title and the topic body, as the
initial paragraph-like content of a topic, or it can be embedded in
an abstract element. The short description, which represents the purpose
or theme of the topic, is also intended to be used as a link preview
and for searching. <ph>The &lt;shortdesc> element also
can be used in a DITA map.</ph></shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>shortdesc</indexterm><indexterm>topic elements<indexterm>shortdesc</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>map elements<indexterm>shortdesc</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>short description</indexterm></keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<refbody>
<section><p>Use the &lt;shortdesc&gt; element when the first paragraph
of topic content is simple enough to be suitable for use as a link
preview or for summaries. Otherwise use the &lt;abstract&gt; element
to provide richer content around the &lt;shortdesc&gt;. See the <xref
href="abstract.dita"></xref> description for more details on the behavior
of &lt;shortdesc> in an abstract.</p><p>While inclusion of the &lt;shortdesc&gt;
element is not mandated by DITA or the tools, it is recommended that
topics contain this element. In cases where a topic contains only
one paragraph, then it is preferable to include this text in the &lt;shortdesc&gt;
and leave the topic body empty. </p>
      <p id="tlength">The short description should be a single, concise paragraph containing one or
        two sentences of no more than 50 words.</p><table
colsep="0" frame="topbot" rowheader="firstcol">
<tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col1" colwidth="44*"/><colspec
colname="col2" colwidth="153*"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry colname="col1" valign="top">Type</entry>
<entry colname="col2" valign="top">Recommended content</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">Task</entry>
<entry colname="col2">
                <p id="twhattosay">The short description should explain what the task information
                  helps users accomplish, the benefits of the task, or the purpose of the task. Do
                  not simply repeat the title. Try to include information that will help users
                  understand when the task is appropriate or why the task is necessary. Avoid
                  stating the obvious, such as <q>You can use XYZ to do A</q> as the only statement
                  in the short description for Task A. In some cases, add more information about why
                  the task is beneficial.</p>
                <p id="tphrasing">Do not use sentence fragments. Use complete sentences. Avoid
                  starting short descriptions with phrases such as <q>This topic describes . . .
                    .</q> or <q>This topic is about . . . .</q></p> 
             </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">Concept</entry>
<entry colname="col2">
                <p id="cwhattosay">Introduce the concept and provide a concise answer to the
                  question "What is this?" and in some cases "Why do I care about this?" If the
                  concept is unfamiliar, you can start with a brief definition. Avoid using the
                  short description to lead in or build up to a topic. The short description
                  paragraph should contain the main point of the concept topic. The concept short
                  description should clearly apply to a concept. Avoid turning the concept topic
                  into a task. Do not simply repeat the title.</p>
                <p id="cphrasing">Do not use sentence fragments. Use complete sentences. Avoid
                  starting short descriptions with phrases such as <q>This topic describes . . .
                    .</q> or <q>This topic is about . . . .</q></p> 
             </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">Reference</entry>
<entry colname="col2">
                <p id="rwhattosay">Briefly describe what the reference item does, what it is, or
                  what it is used for.</p>
                <p id="rphrasing">In most cases, use a complete sentence. You can use a sentence
                  fragment only for a topic that is very short, such as an API topic and each of its
                  subtopics. Use consistent phrasing across libraries and information centers so
                  that your information can be seamlessly integrated with another product's
                  information.</p> 
             </entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table></section>
<section><title>Short descriptions in maps</title><p>The &lt;shortdesc>
element is also available in maps within the &lt;topicmeta> element.
In a map, the element specifies that a topic has a short description
that is specific to the context of that topicref in that map. When
constructing link previews, links that are generated according to
the context of the map should use the &lt;shortdesc> content provided
in the map rather than the &lt;shortdesc> provided in the topic. The
&lt;shortdesc> element in the map allows authors to provide short
descriptions for references to non-DITA objects.</p><?Pub Caret 346?><p>The content of the &lt;shortdesc> element also can be
used to override the short description of the topic, when the copy-to
attribute is specified.<note>Processors may or may not
implement this behavior.</note></p></section>
<section
conref="../../common/commonNavLibraryTable.dita#contentmodel-shortdesc/contains"
id="contains" otherprops="contains"><title>Contains</title><p>The
content model of this element may differ based on where it is used.
Content model information is located here: <xref
keyref="shortdesc-contains"></xref></p></section>
<section
conref="../../common/commonNavLibraryTable.dita#contentmodel-shortdesc/containedby"
id="containedby" otherprops="containedby"><title>Contained By</title><p>The
parents of this element may differ based on where it is used. Content
model information is located here: <xref keyref="shortdesc-contained-by"></xref></p></section>
<section id="inheritance" otherprops="inheritance"><title>Inheritance</title><p>"-
topic/shortdesc " when used in topics, and "- map/shortdesc " when
used in maps.</p></section>
<example id="example"><title>Examples</title><p>The following
example demonstrates the use of a stand-alone shortdesc inside of
a concept topic.</p>
      <codeblock conref="../../common/conref_file.dita#reuse_file/concept-codeblock"/></example>
<example><title>Example: short description within a map</title><codeblock>&lt;topicref href="myThing.dita">
  &lt;topicmeta>
    &lt;navtitle>Navigation title for my topic&lt;/navtitle>
    &lt;shortdesc>A description of myThing that is specific to this context.&lt;/shortdesc>
  &lt;/topicmeta>
&lt;/topicref>
&lt;topicref href="http://www.example.org" scope="external">
  &lt;topicmeta>
    &lt;navtitle>Example website&lt;/navtitle>
    &lt;shortdesc>The example.org address is often used in examples&lt;/shortdesc>
  &lt;/topicmeta>
&lt;/topicref></codeblock></example>
<example conref="abstract.dita#abstract/example"></example>
<example conref="abstract.dita#abstract/example2"></example>
<example conref="abstract.dita#abstract/example3"></example>
<section id="attributes">       <title>Attributes</title>       <simpletable
id="shortdesc_attr" relcolwidth="2* 3* 1* 1* 1*">
<sthead>
<stentry>Name</stentry>
<stentry>Description</stentry>
<stentry>Data Type</stentry>
<stentry>Default Value</stentry>
<stentry>Required?</stentry>
</sthead>
<strow conref="../../common/commonLRdefs.dita#commonLRdefs/univ-atts">
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
</strow>
<strow conref="../../common/commonLRdefs.dita#commonLRdefs/global-atts">
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
</strow>
<strow conref="../../common/commonLRdefs.dita#commonLRdefs/classandout">
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
</strow>
</simpletable>     </section>
</refbody>
</reference>
<?Pub *0000006557?>
