<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN"
 "reference.dtd">
<?Pub Sty _display FontColor="red"?>
<reference id="table" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>table</title>
<shortdesc>The &lt;<keyword>table</keyword>&gt; element organizes
arbitrarily complex relationships of tabular information. This standard
table markup allows column or row spanning and table captions or descriptions.
An optional title allowed inside the table element provides a caption
to describe the table.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>table</indexterm><indexterm>table elements<indexterm>table</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<refbody>
<section><p>The DITA table is based on the OASIS Exchange Table Model,
augmented with DITA attributes that enable it for specialization,
conref, and other DITA processing.  In addition, the table includes
a <apiname>desc</apiname> element, which enables table description
that is parallel with figure description. See <xref
href="simpletable.dita"></xref> for a simplified table model that
can be specialized to represent more regular relationships of data.</p><p
conref="../../common/commonLRdefs.dita#commonLRdefs/pgwide-explain"></p><note>The
scale attribute represents a stylistic markup property that is maintained
(for now) in tables for legacy purposes.  External stylesheets should
enable less dependency on this attribute. You should use the scale
attribute judiciously in your topics.</note><?Pub Caret 87?></section>
<section
conref="../../common/commonNavLibraryTable.dita#contentmodel-table/contains"
id="contains" otherprops="contains"><title>Contains</title><p>The
content model of this element may differ based on where it is used.
Content model information is located here: <xref keyref="table-contains"></xref></p></section>
<section
conref="../../common/commonNavLibraryTable.dita#contentmodel-table/containedby"
id="containedby" otherprops="containedby"><title>Contained By</title><p>The
parents of this element may differ based on where it is used. Content
model information is located here: <xref keyref="table-contained-by"></xref></p></section>
<section id="inheritance" otherprops="inheritance"><title>Inheritance</title><p>-
topic/table </p></section>
<example id="example"><title>Example</title><dl><dlentry>
<dt>Source:</dt>
<dd><codeblock xml:space="preserve">&lt;table&gt;
&lt;tgroup cols="2"&gt;
&lt;colspec colname="COLSPEC0" colwidth="121*"/&gt;
&lt;colspec colname="COLSPEC1" colwidth="76*"/&gt;
&lt;thead&gt;
&lt;row&gt;
&lt;entry colname="COLSPEC0" valign="top"&gt;Animal&lt;/entry&gt;
&lt;entry colname="COLSPEC1" valign="top"&gt;Gestation&lt;/entry&gt;
&lt;/row&gt;
&lt;/thead&gt;
&lt;tbody&gt;
&lt;row&gt;
&lt;entry&gt;Elephant (African and Asian)&lt;/entry&gt;
&lt;entry&gt;19-22 months&lt;/entry&gt;
&lt;/row&gt;
&lt;row&gt;
&lt;entry&gt;Giraffe&lt;/entry&gt;
&lt;entry&gt;15 months&lt;/entry&gt;
&lt;/row&gt;
&lt;row&gt;
&lt;entry&gt;Rhinoceros&lt;/entry&gt;
&lt;entry&gt;14-16 months&lt;/entry&gt;
&lt;/row&gt;
&lt;row&gt;
&lt;entry&gt;Hippopotamus&lt;/entry&gt;
&lt;entry&gt;7 1/2 months&lt;/entry&gt;
&lt;/row&gt;
&lt;/tbody&gt;
&lt;/tgroup&gt;
&lt;/table&gt;</codeblock></dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>Formatted output:</dt>
<dd><table>
<tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="COLSPEC0" colwidth="121*"/><colspec
colname="COLSPEC1" colwidth="76*"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry colname="COLSPEC0" valign="top">Animal</entry>
<entry colname="COLSPEC1" valign="top">Gestation</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry>Elephant (African and Asian)</entry>
<entry>19-22 months</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>Giraffe</entry>
<entry>15 months</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>Rhinoceros</entry>
<entry>14-16 months</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>Hippopotamus</entry>
<entry>7 1/2 months</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table></dd>
</dlentry></dl></example>
<section id="attributes"><title>Attributes</title><simpletable
id="table_attr" relcolwidth="3* 6* 3* 2* 2*">
<sthead>
<stentry>Name</stentry>
<stentry>Description</stentry>
<stentry>Data Type</stentry>
<stentry>Default Value</stentry>
<stentry>Required?</stentry>
</sthead>
 <strow rev="DITA1.3 proposal-13078">
  <stentry>orient</stentry>
  <stentry>Specifies the orientation of the table in page-based outputs. <ph>This
   attribute is primarily useful for print-oriented display.</ph> Allowable values are:<dl>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>port</dt>
     <dd>The same orientation as the text flow.</dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>land</dt>
     <dd>90 degrees counterclockwise from the text flow.</dd>
    </dlentry>
    <dlentry>
     <dt>-dita-use-​conref-​target </dt>
     <dd>See <xref href="../attributes/ditauseconreftarget.dita"/> for more information. </dd>
    </dlentry>
   </dl> In situations where a stylesheet or other formatting mechanism specifies table
   orientation based on other criteria, or for non-paginated outputs, the orient
   attribute may be ignored.<indexterm>orient attribute</indexterm></stentry>
  <stentry>(land | port | xref />)</stentry>
  <stentry>#IMPLIED</stentry>
  <stentry>No</stentry>
 </strow>
<strow conref="../../common/commonLRdefs.dita#commonLRdefs/frame">
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
</strow>
<strow conref="../../common/commonLRdefs.dita#commonLRdefs/colsep">
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
</strow>
<strow conref="../../common/commonLRdefs.dita#commonLRdefs/rowsep">
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
</strow>
<strow conref="../../common/commonLRdefs.dita#commonLRdefs/pgwide">
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
</strow>
<strow conref="../../common/commonLRdefs.dita#commonLRdefs/rowheader">
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
</strow>
<strow conref="../../common/commonLRdefs.dita#commonLRdefs/scale">
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
</strow>
<strow conref="../../common/commonLRdefs.dita#commonLRdefs/univ-atts">
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
</strow>
<strow conref="../../common/commonLRdefs.dita#commonLRdefs/global-atts">
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
</strow>
<strow conref="../../common/commonLRdefs.dita#commonLRdefs/classandout">
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
</strow>
</simpletable></section>
</refbody>
</reference>
<?Pub *0000005852?>
