<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN"
 "reference.dtd">
<reference id="IssueNumber00" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>DITA 1.3 proposed feature #13029</title>
<shortdesc>Allow the &lt;text> element to occur is all contexts where #PCDATA is
    allowed.</shortdesc>
<refbody>
<section><title>Date and version information</title><p>Include the following information:<ul>
     <li>Completed 16 Feb 2013</li>
     <li>Champion: Eliot Kimber</li>
    </ul></p></section>
<section><title>Original requirement</title><p>Presented 7/12/2011: text should be allowed just about everywhere. Feature
        12020 implemented in 1.2 requires the use &lt;keyword> when an element
        type allows keyword but not ph. I think that the use of keyword in this
        way constitutes tag abuse and could lead to unwanted or unexpected
        results (e.g., text being bolded when it was not semantically a keyword
        but just a re-used text phrase). I can't see any reason not to allow
        &lt;text> in contexts that allow keyword but not &lt;ph>.</p>
      <p>The issue is most clearly seen in doing content references of small
        text strings. There contexts where only &lt;keyword> is allowed and
        contexts where only &lt;text> is allowed, This means that for text used
        in both contexts (which is quite common), you must maintain two copies
        of the reusable text, one tagged as &lt;keyword> and one as
        &lt;text>.</p></section>
<section><title>Use cases</title><p>The primary use case is the ability to reuse short strings that do not
        require any additional markup beyond that allowed in &lt;text> itself,
        into any context where #PCDATA is allowed.</p></section>
<section><title>Benefits</title><p>Address the following questions:<ul>
     <li>This feature benefits all DITA users that need to use the &lt;text>
          element for reuse.</li>
     <li>The primary benefit is removing the need to maintain duplicate reusable
          elements for the same text string and removing the need to know (and
          understand why) &lt;text> is allowed in some contexts and not in
          others.</li>
     <li>The expectation is that most, if not all, DITA users will make use of
          this feature to one degree or another.</li>
     <li>This provides a significant positive impact by eliminating a
          significant source of added cost and confusion.</li>
    </ul></p></section>
<section><title>Costs</title><p>Outline the impact (time and effort) of the feature on the following groups:<ul>
     <li>Maintainers of the DTDs and XSDs:<ul
          id="ul_c31_111_gj">
          <li>Update DTD, XSD, and RNG/RNC declarations as described under
            Technical Requirements. </li>
          </ul></li>
     <li>Editors of the DITA specification:<ul>
       <li>How many new topics will be required?<ul
            id="ul_s14_c11_gj">
            <li>No new topics are required.</li>
            </ul></li>
       <li>How many existing topics will need to be edited?<ul
            id="ul_f1h_d11_gj">
            <li>The topic for &lt;text> will need to be updated to reflect its
              more expansive role.</li>
            <li>For other topics, only the generated contains and contains-by
              information is affected.</li>
            </ul></li>
       <li>This feature does not affect the information architecture of the DITA
            specification.</li>
      </ul></li>
     <li>Vendors of tools: Will need to reflect updated DTDs. Any special
          handling of the &lt;text> element may need to be updated to reflect
          its use in new contexts, although as &lt;text> has no default
          formatting effect, this is probably a small cost.</li>
     <li>This feature should not add to the perception of DITA complexity as in
          fact it makes things simpler by removing special cases for occurrence
          of &lt;text> that have proven to be confusing.</li>
    </ul></p></section>
<section><title>Technical requirements</title><p>Allowing &lt;text> everywhere #PCDATA is allowed requires the following
        general updates to the existing vocabulary modules:<ul
        id="ul_xc2_r11_gj">
          <li>DO NOT Add to %txt.incl--overlaps with basic.ph in all but a few element types. </li>
          <li>add to %basic.ph; </li>
          <li>Add to %basic.ph.noxref (all title-like elements)</li>
          <li>Add to %basic.ph.notm (programming and ui domains)</li>
          <li>Add to elements that use %txt.incl but not %basic.ph</li>
          <li>Add to elements that only allow #PCDATA</li>
          <li>Add to %words.cnt; </li>
          <li>bookmap.mod: Add to elements that allow #PCDATA but no other parments.</li>
          <li>learningMetadataDomain.mod: Add to elements that allow #PCDATA but no other parments.</li>
          <li>glossentry: Update specializations of title to use title.cnt, </li>
          <li>xnalDomain: Add to elements that allow #PCDATA but no other parments.</li>
        </ul></p></section>
<section><title>Examples</title><p>Provide examples of the proposed feature. Include an example for each of the use cases. Be sure
    to include edge cases, if known.</p></section>
</refbody>
</reference><?Pub Caret -3?>
<?Pub *0000003625?>
