<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2012, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE dita PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN"
 "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
<topic id="topic_aqh_5zt_3h">
<title>Stage 3 proposal: Feature #13035</title>
<shortdesc>Provides an XML-mention domain for marking up mentions
of XML syntactic components.       This will benefit any document
that talks about XML vocabularies, such as the DITA standard,    
  documentation for XML applications, instructional materials for
XML technologies,       documentation of XML-based configuration files,
and more.</shortdesc>
<body>
<section>         <title>Champion</title>         <p>Eliot Kimber</p
>       </section>
<section>         <title>Tracking information</title>         <simpletable
frame="all" relcolwidth="1.0* 1.0* 1.0*">
<sthead>
<stentry>Event</stentry>
<stentry>Date</stentry>
<stentry>Links</stentry>
</sthead>
<strow>
<stentry>Stage 1 proposal accepted</stentry>
<stentry>16 August 2011</stentry>
<stentry>               <xref format="text"
href="https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/43308/DITA-TC-minutes-16-August-2011.txt"
scope="external">Minutes, 16 August 2011</xref></stentry>
</strow>
<strow>
<stentry>Stage 2 proposal submitted</stentry>
<stentry>30 September 2012; 16 October 2012</stentry>
<stentry>               <sl>
<sli>                   <xref format="html"
href="https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/47212/proposal-13035-xmldomain.html"
scope="external">XHTML</xref></sli>
<sli>                   <xref format="dita"
href="https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/47210/proposal-13035-xmldomain.dita"
scope="external">DITA source</xref></sli>
<sli>                   <xref format="zip"
href="https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/47209/proposal-13035-xmldomain-toolkit-plugins.zip"
scope="external">DITA-OT plug-ins</xref></sli>
</sl>             </stentry>
</strow>
<strow>
<stentry>Stage 2 proposal discussed</stentry>
<stentry>9 and 16 October 2012</stentry>
<stentry>               <sl>
<sli>                   <xref format="text"
href="https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/47143/dita_tc_minutes_20121009.txt"
scope="external">Minutes, 9 October 2012</xref>                 </sli>
<sli>                   <xref format="text"
href="https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/47205/minutes20121016.txt"
scope="external">Minutes, 16 October 2012</xref>                 </sli>
</sl>             </stentry>
</strow>
<strow>
<stentry>Stage 2 proposal approved</stentry>
<stentry>19 February 2013</stentry>
<stentry>               <xref format="txt"
href="https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/48344/minutes20130219.txt"
scope="external" type="text">Minutes, 19 February 2013           
   </xref></stentry>
</strow>
<strow>
<stentry>Stage 3 proposal submitted to reviewers</stentry>
<stentry>18 October 2013</stentry>
<stentry>Tom Magliery, David Helfinstine</stentry>
</strow>
<strow>
<stentry>Stage 3 proposal (this document) submitted</stentry>
<stentry>1 November 2013</stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
</strow>
</simpletable>       </section>
<section>         <title>Approved technical requirements</title> 
       <p>Define a markupDomain vocabulary module for generic mentions
of markup names, and an xmlDomain vocabulary module defining XML-specific
markup naming elements.</p>         <dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>&lt;markupname></dt>
<dd>Markup domain. Mention of any markup-related name. This element
serves as the specialization basis for all other elements.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>&lt;numcharref></dt>
<dd>XML domain. Mention of a numeric character reference</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>&lt;parameterentity></dt>
<dd>XML domain. Mention of a parameter entity</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>&lt;textentity></dt>
<dd>XML domain. A mention of a text entity</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>&lt;xmlatt></dt>
<dd>XML domain. Mention of an XML attribute</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>&lt;xmlelement></dt>
<dd>XML domain. Mention of an XML element type</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>&lt;xmlnsname></dt>
<dd>XML domain. Mention of an XML namespace name</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>&lt;xmlpi></dt>
<dd>XML domain. Mention of an XML processing instruction name</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl>       </section>
<section>         <title>Dependencies or interrelated proposals</title
>         <p>None</p>       </section>
<section>         <title>New DTD files</title>         <p>  <fig>
<title>markupDomain.ent</title>
<codeblock><coderef
href="org.oasis-open.dita.markupdomain.doctypes/doctypes/dtd/markupDomain.ent"
/></codeblock>
</fig><fig>
<title>markupDomain.mod</title>
<codeblock><coderef
href="org.oasis-open.dita.markupdomain.doctypes/doctypes/dtd/markupDomain.mod"
/></codeblock><?Pub Caret -1?>
</fig>         <fig>
<title>xmlDomain.ent</title>
<codeblock><coderef
href="org.oasis-open.dita.xmldomain.doctypes/doctypes/dtd/xmlDomain.ent"
/></codeblock>
</fig>         </p>         <p>           <fig>
<title>xmlDomain.mod</title>
<codeblock><coderef
href="org.oasis-open.dita.xmldomain.doctypes/doctypes/dtd/xmlDomain.mod"
/></codeblock>
</fig>         </p>       </section>
<section>         <title>Modified DTDs</title>         <p>This depends
on whether we plan to integrate the XML mention domain into the base
or           technical content DTDs.</p>       </section>
<section>         <title>Modified specification documentation</title
>         <p>Adds 10 topics to the <cite>Language Reference</cite
>:<ol>
<li>Container topic for the markupDomain</li>
<li>Topic for the &lt;markupname> element</li>
<li>Container topic for the xmlDomain</li>
<li>Topic for the &lt;numcharref> element</li>
<li>Topic for the &lt;parameterentity> element</li>
<li>Topic for the &lt;textentity> element</li>
<li>Topic for the &lt;xmlatt> element</li>
<li>Topic for the &lt;xmlelement> element</li>
<li>Topic for the &lt;xmlnsname> element</li>
<li>Topic for the &lt;xmlpi> element</li>
</ol>This topic collection should be added to the current section
3.2.6 [Technical content] Domain elements. I suggest that it be placed
in-between "User interface elements" and "xNAL domain           elements".</p
>       </section>
</body>
</topic>
<reference id="reference_aqh_5zt_3h">
<title>New language reference topics</title>
<reference id="markup-domain">
<title>Markup domain</title>
<shortdesc>The markup domain elements are used for the mention of
named constructs in markup languages.</shortdesc>
<prolog>
<metadata><keywords><indexterm>Markup domain<indexterm>overview</indexterm
></indexterm></keywords></metadata>
</prolog>
<reference id="markupname">
<title>markupname</title>
<shortdesc>The &lt;markupname> element identifies mentions of any
named markup token, such as elements or attributes in XML or SGML.
This element also serves as the specialization basis for the elements
in the XML mention domain; when that domain is present, its more specific
elements should be used instead of &lt;markupname> when appropriate.</shortdesc>
<prolog>
<metadata><keywords><indexterm>markupname element</indexterm><indexterm
>Markup domain<indexterm>markupname element</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords></metadata>
</prolog>
<refbody>
<section><title>Inheritance</title><codeph>+ topic/keyword markup-d/markupname </codeph
></section>
<section>             <title>Example</title>            <codeblock
>The <b>&lt;markupname>p.attributes&lt;/markupname></b> attribute group defines 
the allowed attributes for the &lt;xmlelement>p&lt;/xmlelement> element.</codeblock
>           </section>
<section>             <title>Attributes</title>             <simpletable
id="simpletable_i3l_1pn_5l" relcolwidth="2* 3* 1* 1* 1*">
<sthead>
<stentry>Name</stentry>
<stentry>Description</stentry>
<stentry>Data Type</stentry>
<stentry>Default Value</stentry>
<stentry>Required?</stentry>
</sthead>
<strow conref="../common/commonLRdefs.dita#commonLRdefs/univ-atts">
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
</strow>
<strow conref="../common/commonLRdefs.dita#commonLRdefs/global-atts">
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
</strow>
<strow conref="../common/commonLRdefs.dita#commonLRdefs/classoutkey">
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
</strow>
</simpletable>           </section>
</refbody>
</reference>
</reference>
<reference id="xml-mention-domain">
<title>XML mention domain</title>
<shortdesc>The XML-mention domain elements are used for mentions of
named XML constructs, including elements, attributes, parameter entities,
processing instructions, document type declaration         components,
and XSD and Relax NG schema components. These elements enable specific
typographic effects for different construct types, precise search
and retrieval of specific constructs, and         automatic indexing
of different constructs. This domain is intended to support the description
and documentation of XML document types and XML applications.</shortdesc>
<prolog>
<metadata><keywords><indexterm>XML mention domain<indexterm>overview</indexterm
></indexterm></keywords></metadata>
</prolog>
<reference id="numcharref"><?Pub Dtl?>
<title>numcharref</title>
<shortdesc>The &lt;numcharref> element identifies mentions of XML
numeric character references (e.g., "&amp;#10;", "&amp;#x0a;"). This
element enables more precise semantic searching of the           DITA
source; it also enables distinct output formatting. The content of
the &lt;numcharref> element should be just the numeric value, e.g.
"10" or "x0a", with any leading or trailing           characters added
as a matter of style, e.g., the "&amp;#" and ";" delimiters. This
element is part of the XML mention domain.</shortdesc>
<prolog>
<metadata><keywords><indexterm>numcharref element</indexterm><indexterm
>XML mention domain<indexterm>numcharref element</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords></metadata>
</prolog>
<refbody>
<section><title>Inheritance</title><codeph>+ topic/keyword markup-d/markupname
xml-d/numcharref</codeph></section>
<section>             <title>Example</title>             <codeblock
>&lt;p>Numeric character references represent characters from the Universal
Character Set (UCS) of Unicode. They are used to reference characters  that 
cannot easily be directly encoded in a document, such as a copyright 
symbol. When a markup-aware processor encounters a numeric  character 
reference, for example,&nbsp;<b>&lt;numcharref>225&lt;/numcharref></b
>, it renders the 
reference as the Unicode character that it represents: a-acute.&lt;/p></codeblock
>           </section>
<section id="attributes">             <title>Attributes</title>  
          <simpletable id="keyword_attr" relcolwidth="2* 3* 1* 1* 1*">
<sthead>
<stentry>Name</stentry>
<stentry>Description</stentry>
<stentry>Data Type</stentry>
<stentry>Default Value</stentry>
<stentry>Required?</stentry>
</sthead>
<strow conref="../common/commonLRdefs.dita#commonLRdefs/univ-atts">
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
</strow>
<strow conref="../common/commonLRdefs.dita#commonLRdefs/global-atts">
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
</strow>
<strow conref="../common/commonLRdefs.dita#commonLRdefs/classoutkey">
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
</strow>
</simpletable>           </section>
</refbody>
</reference>
<reference id="parameterentity"><?Pub Dtl?>
<title>parameterentity</title>
<shortdesc>The &lt;parameterentity> element identifies mentions of
parameter entities (e.g. "%keyword.content;"). This element enables
more precise semantic searching of the DITA source; it           also
enables distinct formatting, such as adding the "%" and ";" delimiters
to the parameter entity name. The content of the &lt;parameterentity>
element should be the entity name without           the leading "%"
or trailing ";". This element is part of the XML mention domain.</shortdesc>
<prolog>
<metadata><keywords><indexterm>parameterentity element</indexterm>
<indexterm>XML mention domain<indexterm>parameterentity          
      element</indexterm></indexterm></keywords></metadata>
</prolog>
<refbody>
<section><title>Inheritance</title><codeph>+ topic/keyword markup-d/markupname
xml-d/parameterentity</codeph></section>
<section>             <title>Examples</title>             <codeblock
>&lt;p> ... The <b>&lt;parameterentity>p.content&lt;parameterentity></b
> parameter entity 
defines the content model for the &lt;xmlelement>p&lt;/xmlelement> element.&lt;/p></codeblock
>             <codeblock>&lt;p>To include the XML-mention domain in a DTD document-type shell, you must 
declare the <b>&lt;parameterentity>xml-d-dec&lt;/parameterentity></b
> parameter entity.&lt;/p></codeblock>           </section>
<section>             <title>Attributes</title>             <simpletable
id="simpletable_ld2_1pn_5l" relcolwidth="2* 3* 1* 1* 1*">
<sthead>
<stentry>Name</stentry>
<stentry>Description</stentry>
<stentry>Data Type</stentry>
<stentry>Default Value</stentry>
<stentry>Required?</stentry>
</sthead>
<strow conref="../common/commonLRdefs.dita#commonLRdefs/univ-atts">
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
</strow>
<strow conref="../common/commonLRdefs.dita#commonLRdefs/global-atts">
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
</strow>
<strow conref="../common/commonLRdefs.dita#commonLRdefs/classoutkey">
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
</strow>
</simpletable>           </section>
</refbody>
</reference>
<reference id="textentity"><?Pub Dtl?>
<title>textentity</title>
<shortdesc>The &lt;textentity> element identifies mentions of XML
text entities (e.g. "&amp;xml-d-att;"). This element enables more
precise semantic searching of the DITA source; it also           enables
distinct formatting, such as adding an ampersand (&amp;) as a leading
character and a semicolon (;) as a trailing character. The content
of the &lt;textentity> element should be the           entity name
without the "&amp;" and ";" delimiters. This element is part of the
XML mention domain.</shortdesc>
<prolog>
<metadata><keywords><indexterm>textentity element</indexterm><indexterm
>XML mention domain<indexterm>textentity element</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords></metadata>
</prolog>
<refbody>
<section><title>Inheritance</title><codeph>+ topic/keyword markup-d/markupname
xml-d/textentity</codeph></section>
<section>             <title>Example</title>             <codeblock
>The <b>&lt;textentity>hi-d-att&lt;/textentity></b> entity holds the contribution for the 
&lt;xmlatt>domains&lt;/xmlatt> attribute.</codeblock>           </section>
<section>             <title>Attributes</title>             <simpletable
id="simpletable_pc5_1pn_5l" relcolwidth="2* 3* 1* 1* 1*">
<sthead>
<stentry>Name</stentry>
<stentry>Description</stentry>
<stentry>Data Type</stentry>
<stentry>Default Value</stentry>
<stentry>Required?</stentry>
</sthead>
<strow conref="../common/commonLRdefs.dita#commonLRdefs/univ-atts">
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
</strow>
<strow conref="../common/commonLRdefs.dita#commonLRdefs/global-atts">
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
</strow>
<strow conref="../common/commonLRdefs.dita#commonLRdefs/classoutkey">
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
</strow>
</simpletable>           </section>
</refbody>
</reference>
<reference id="xmlatt">
<title>xmlatt</title>
<shortdesc>The &lt;xmlatt> element identifies mentions of XML attributes.
This element enables more precise semantic searching of the DITA source;
it also enables distinct formatting, such as           preceding the
name of the attribute with a commercial at (@) sign. The content of
the &lt;xmlatt> element should be the attribute name without any "@"
or "=" characters. This element is part           of the XML mention
domain.</shortdesc>
<prolog>
<metadata><keywords><indexterm>xmlatt element</indexterm><indexterm
>XML mention domain<indexterm>xmlatt element</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords></metadata>
</prolog>
<refbody>
<section><title>Inheritance</title><codeph>+ topic/keyword markup-d/markupname
xml-d/xmlatt</codeph></section>
<section>             <title>Example</title>             <codeblock
>The <b>&lt;xmlatt>collection-type&lt;/xmlatt></b> and <b>&lt;xmlatt>linking&lt;/xmlatt></b
> 
attributes affect how related links are generated for topics that are 
referenced in the DITA map.</codeblock>           </section>
<section>             <title>Attributes</title>             <simpletable
id="simpletable_zv2_bpn_5l" relcolwidth="2* 3* 1* 1* 1*">
<sthead>
<stentry>Name</stentry>
<stentry>Description</stentry>
<stentry>Data Type</stentry>
<stentry>Default Value</stentry>
<stentry>Required?</stentry>
</sthead>
<strow conref="../common/commonLRdefs.dita#commonLRdefs/univ-atts">
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
</strow>
<strow conref="../common/commonLRdefs.dita#commonLRdefs/global-atts">
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
</strow>
<strow conref="../common/commonLRdefs.dita#commonLRdefs/classoutkey">
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
</strow>
</simpletable>           </section>
</refbody>
</reference>
<reference id="xmlelement"><?Pub Dtl?>
<title>xmlelement</title>
<shortdesc>The &lt;xmlelement> element identifies mentions of XML
element types. This element enables more precise semantic searching
of the DITA source; it also enables distinct formatting,         
 such as surrounding the name of the element with angle brackets.
The content of the &lt;xmlelement> element should be the element type
name without leading or training angle brackets. This           element
is part of the XML mention domain.</shortdesc>
<prolog>
<metadata><keywords><indexterm>xmlelement element</indexterm><indexterm
>XML mention domain<indexterm>xmlelement element</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords></metadata>
</prolog>
<refbody>
<section><title>Inheritance</title><codeph>+ topic/keyword markup-d/markupname
xml-d/xmlelement</codeph></section>
<section>             <title>Example</title>             <codeblock
>&lt;p>Use the <b>&lt;xmlelement>uicontrol&lt;/xmlelement></b> (user interface control) 
element to indicate the names of buttons, entry fields, menu items, or 
other objects that enable a user to interact with a graphical user 
interface.&lt;/p></codeblock>           </section>
<section>             <title>Attributes</title>             <simpletable
id="simpletable_gj4_bpn_5l" relcolwidth="2* 3* 1* 1* 1*">
<sthead>
<stentry>Name</stentry>
<stentry>Description</stentry>
<stentry>Data Type</stentry>
<stentry>Default Value</stentry>
<stentry>Required?</stentry>
</sthead>
<strow conref="../common/commonLRdefs.dita#commonLRdefs/univ-atts">
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
</strow>
<strow conref="../common/commonLRdefs.dita#commonLRdefs/global-atts">
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
</strow>
<strow conref="../common/commonLRdefs.dita#commonLRdefs/classoutkey">
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
</strow>
</simpletable>           </section>
</refbody>
</reference>
<reference id="xmlnsname"><?Pub Dtl?>
<title>xmlnsname</title>
<shortdesc>The &lt;xmlnsname> element identifies mentionds of namespace
names (e.g., "http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/"). This
element enables more precise semantic searching of           the DITA
source; it also enables distinct formatting. This element is part
of the XML mention domain. </shortdesc>
<prolog>
<metadata><keywords><indexterm>xmlnsname element</indexterm><indexterm
>XML mention domain<indexterm>xmlnsname element</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords></metadata>
</prolog>
<refbody>
<section><title>Inheritance</title><codeph>+ topic/keyword markup-d/markupname
xml-d/xmlnsname</codeph></section>
<section>             <title>Example</title>             <codeblock
>The namespace name for XHTML is <b>&lt;xmlnamespace>http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml&lt;/xmlnamespace></b
>. </codeblock>           </section>
<section>             <title>Attributes</title>             <simpletable
id="simpletable_hky_bpn_5l" relcolwidth="2* 3* 1* 1* 1*">
<sthead>
<stentry>Name</stentry>
<stentry>Description</stentry>
<stentry>Data Type</stentry>
<stentry>Default Value</stentry>
<stentry>Required?</stentry>
</sthead>
<strow conref="../common/commonLRdefs.dita#commonLRdefs/univ-atts">
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
</strow>
<strow conref="../common/commonLRdefs.dita#commonLRdefs/global-atts">
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
</strow>
<strow conref="../common/commonLRdefs.dita#commonLRdefs/classoutkey">
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
</strow>
</simpletable>           </section>
</refbody>
</reference>
<reference id="xmlpi"><?Pub Dtl?>
<title>xmlpi</title>
<shortdesc>The &lt;xmlpi> element identifies mentions of processing
instruction names (e.g., "&lt;?<i>piname</i> pi value"). This element
enables more precise semantic searching of the DITA           source;
it also enables distinct formatting. This element is part of the XML
mention domain. </shortdesc>
<prolog>
<metadata><keywords><indexterm>xmlpi element</indexterm><indexterm
>XML mention domain<indexterm>xmlpi element</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords></metadata>
</prolog>
<refbody>
<section><title>Inheritance</title><codeph>+ topic/keyword markup-d/markupname
xml-d/xmlpi</codeph></section>
<section>             <title>Example</title>             <codeblock
>While DITA does not define any processing instructions, you may be able to
use the DocBook processing instructions, such as <b>&lt;xmlpi>dbhtml_bgcolor&lt;/xmlpi></b
>.</codeblock>           </section>
<section>             <title>Attributes</title>             <simpletable
id="simpletable_os1_vc2_1m" relcolwidth="2* 3* 1* 1* 1*">
<sthead>
<stentry>Name</stentry>
<stentry>Description</stentry>
<stentry>Data Type</stentry>
<stentry>Default Value</stentry>
<stentry>Required?</stentry>
</sthead>
<strow conref="../common/commonLRdefs.dita#commonLRdefs/univ-atts">
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
</strow>
<strow conref="../common/commonLRdefs.dita#commonLRdefs/global-atts">
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
</strow>
<strow conref="../common/commonLRdefs.dita#commonLRdefs/classoutkey">
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
<stentry></stentry>
</strow>
</simpletable>           </section>
</refbody>
</reference>
</reference>
</reference>
</dita>
