<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="generalization-w-cross-specialization-dependencies" rev="DITA1.3 proposal-13121">
 <title>Generalization with cross-specialization dependencies</title>
 <shortdesc>Dependencies across specializations limit generalization targets to those that either
  preserve the dependency or eliminate them. Some generalization targets will not be valid and
  should be detected before generalization occurs.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p>When a structural specialization has a dependency on a domain specialization, then the domain
   cannot be generalized without also generalizing the reusing structural specialization. </p>
  <p>For example, if programming domain elements in codeConcept were generalized to their topic
   equivalents without also generalizing codeConcept elements, then the places where the content
   model of a codeConcept element includes programming domain elements would become invalid.
   However, codeConcept could be generalized to concept or topic, without generalizing programming
   domain elements, as long as the target document type includes the programming domain.</p>
  <p>When a structural specialization has a dependency on another structural specialization, then
   both must be generalized together to a common ancestor. </p>
  <p>For example, if the task elements in checklist were generalized without also generalizing
   checklist elements, then the checklist content models that referenced task elements would be
   broken. And if the checklist elements were generalized to topic without also generalizing the
   task elements, then the task elements would be out of place, since they cannot be validly present
   in topic. However, checklist and task can be generalized together to any ancestor they have in
   common: in this case topic. </p>
  <p>Generalizing processes should detect invalid generalization target combinations and report them
   as errors.</p>
 </conbody>
</concept>
