<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
  <topic id="topic_aqh_5zt_3h">
    <title>Stage 3 proposal: Feature 13010 sort-as element</title>
    <shortdesc>Provides an element that specifies the string ("sort phrase") on
      which its associated element should be sorted. Analogous to
      &lt;index-sort-as>.</shortdesc>
    <body>
      <section>
        <title>Champion</title>
        <p>Eliot Kimber</p>
      </section>
      <section>
        <title>Tracking information</title>
        <simpletable
          frame="all"
          relcolwidth="1.0* 1.0* 1.0*">
          <sthead>
            <stentry>Event</stentry>
            <stentry>Date</stentry>
            <stentry>Links</stentry>
          </sthead>
          <strow>
            <stentry>Stage 1 proposal accepted</stentry>
            <stentry>5 July 2011</stentry>
            <stentry>Include link to meeting minutes</stentry>
          </strow>
          <strow>
            <stentry>Stage 2 proposal submitted</stentry>
            <stentry/>
            <stentry>Include links to DITA and HTML versions</stentry>
          </strow>
          <strow>
            <stentry>Stage 2 proposal discussed</stentry>
            <stentry/>
            <stentry>Include link to meeting minutes</stentry>
          </strow>
          <strow>
            <stentry>Stage 2 proposal approved</stentry>
            <stentry>21 May 2013</stentry>
            <stentry>Include link to meeting minutes</stentry>
          </strow>
          <strow>
            <stentry>Stage 3 proposal submitted to reviewers</stentry>
            <stentry/>
            <stentry>Include names of reviewers</stentry>
          </strow>
          <strow>
            <stentry>Stage 3 proposal (this document) submitted</stentry>
            <stentry/>
            <stentry/>
          </strow>
        </simpletable>
      </section>
      <section>
        <title>Approved technical requirements</title>
        <p>Add a new element type, &lt;sort-as>, specialized from &lt;data>, to
          the utilities domain.</p>
      </section>
      <section>
        <title>Dependencies or interrelated proposals</title>
        <p>No related proposals.</p>
      </section>
      <section>
        <title>Modified DTDs</title>
        <dl>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>utilitiesDomain.ent</dt>
            <dd>
              <p>Add domain integration entity
                %ut-d-data:<codeblock>&lt;!ENTITY % ut-d-data     
  "sort-as
  "
></codeblock></p>
            </dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>utilitiesDomain.mod</dt>
            <dd>
              <p>Add parameter entity declaration for the &lt;sort-as>
                element:<codeblock>&lt;!ENTITY % sort-as     "sort-as"                                     ></codeblock></p>
              <p>Add declaration for the &lt;sort-as> element
                type:<codeblock>&lt;!--                    LONG NAME: Sort key specifier      -->
&lt;!ENTITY % sort-as.content
 "(#PCDATA |
   %text; |
   %keyword;)*"
>
&lt;!ENTITY % sort-as.attributes
             "%univ-atts;
              name 
                        CDATA 
                                  #IMPLIED
              value 
                        CDATA 
                                  #IMPLIED"
>
&lt;!ELEMENT sort-as    %sort-as.content;>
&lt;!ATTLIST sort-as    %sort-as.attributes;></codeblock></p>
              <p>Declare the @class attribute for
                &lt;sort-as>:<codeblock>&lt;!ATTLIST sort-as  %global-atts;  class CDATA "+ topic/data ut-d/sort-as " ></codeblock></p>
            </dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
      </section>
      <section>
        <title>Modified specification documentation</title>
        <table
          frame="all"
          id="table_bt2_mql_pk">
          <title>New and Modified Topics</title>
          <tgroup
            cols="3">
            <colspec
              colname="c1"
              colnum="1"
              colwidth="1.0*"/>
            <colspec
              colname="c2"
              colnum="2"
              colwidth="1.0*"/>
            <colspec
              colname="c3"
              colnum="3"
              colwidth="1.0*"/>
            <thead>
              <row>
                <entry>Topic File</entry>
                <entry>DITA 1.2 Text</entry>
                <entry>DITA 1.3 Text</entry>
              </row>
            </thead>
            <tbody>
              <row>
                <entry>archSpec/topicDomains_BasicDITA.dita</entry>
                <entry>For providing imagemaps and other useful structures </entry>
                <entry>For providing imagemaps, sort keys, and other useful
                  structures </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>langref/sort-as.dita</entry>
                <entry/>
                <entry>New topic</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>archSpec/sort-as-processing.dita</entry>
                <entry/>
                <entry>New topic. Add under DITA processing, as new last
                  child.</entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry/>
                <entry/>
                <entry/>
              </row>
            </tbody>
          </tgroup>
        </table>
      </section>
    </body>
    <concept
      id="sort-as-processing">
      <title>Sorting</title>
      <shortdesc>Processors may choose to sort any elements for any reason.
        Common sort processing includes glossary entries sorted to produce
        automatically-generated or automatically-sorted glossary lists, lists of
        parameters or reference entries in custom navigation structures, tables
        sorted based on the contents of a specific column, and so on. The
        &lt;sort-as> element can be used to specify a sort key when the content
        of the element to be sorted is not appropriate as the sort
        key.</shortdesc>
      <conbody>
        <p>The details of sorting and grouping are necessarily implementation
          specific. Processors may provide any mechanism for defining or
          configuring collation and grouping details. Even where &lt;sort-as>
          has been specified, two processors may produce different sorted and
          grouped results because they may use different collation and grouping
          rules. For example, one processor may be configured to sort English
          terms before non-English terms, another may be configured to sort them
          after. The grouping and sorting of any content is subject to local
          editorial rules. </p>
        <p>When sorting elements, each element to be sorted must have some
          inherent text on which it will be sorted in the absence of a
          &lt;sort-as> value. This text may be literal content in the DITA XML
          source or may be generated or constructed based on the semantics of
          the element involved (for example, it may be constructed from various
          attribute or metadata values). This text is the "base sort phrase" for
          the element. For elements with explicit or implicit titles, such as
          topics, figures, tables, and sections, the base sort phrase would
          normally be the title. Processors that do sorting should clearly
          document how the base sort phrase is determined for a given element
          type for which sorting is provided where the base sort phrase is not
          the title content (for elements that have titles).</p>
        <p>When &lt;sort-as> is specified, processors that sort the containing
          element must construct the effective sort phrase by prepending the
          &lt;sort-as> sort phrase to the base sort phrase. This ensures that
          two items with the same sort-as phrase but different base sort phrases
          will sort in the appropriate order.</p>
        <note
          othertype="example">For example, if the title of a topic is "24 Hour
          Support Hotline" and the value of the &lt;sort-as> element is
          "twenty-four hour", then the effective sort phrase would be
          "twenty-four hour24 Hour Support Hotline".</note>
      </conbody>
    </concept>
    <reference
      id="sort-as">
      <title>sort-as</title>
      <shortdesc>The &lt;sort-as> element defines the string ("sort phrase") by
        which the containing element should be sorted or grouped (or the nearest
        ancestor to which sorting or grouping will be applied). The sort phrase
        may be specified in the @value attribute or in the content of
        &lt;sort-as>.</shortdesc>
      <refbody>
        <section>
          <p>The &lt;text> and &lt;keyword> elements are allowed in order to
            enable content referencing for specifying the sort phrase. If
            &lt;keyword> is used within &lt;sort-as>, it may get its effective
            value via @keyref in order to set the sort phrase value. If a
            &lt;keyword> uses @keyref and would otherwise also act as a
            navigation link, the link aspect of the &lt;keyword> element is
            ignored.</p>
          <p>As a specialization of &lt;data>, the &lt;sort-as> element is
            nominally allowed in any context where &lt;data> is allowed.
            However, the presence of &lt;sort-as> within an element does not, by
            itself, indicate that the containing element should be sorted.
            Processors may choose to sort any DITA elements for any reason.
            Likewise, processors are not required to sort any elements. See <xref
            keyref="sort-processing"/>.</p>
          <p>Some elements in the base DITA vocabulary are natural candidates
            for sorting, including topics, definition list entries, and rows in
            tables and simple tables. For those elements, processors should
            apply &lt;sort-as> as follows:<ul
            id="ul_ush_jnn_zj">
            <li>
              <p>For topics, the &lt;sort-as> element may be included directly
                in &lt;title>, &lt;searchtitle>, or &lt;navtitle> when the
                different forms of title need different sort phrases. If the
                sort phrase is common to all the titles for a topic, the
                &lt;sort-as> element may be included in the topic's prolog
                anywhere &lt;data> is allowed. The title's sort-as value should
                be used as the sort-as for any search title or navigation title
                when those elements do not specify their own sort-as values.
              </p>
            </li>
            <li>
              <p>For &lt;glossentry>, the &lt;sort-as> element may be included
                directly in &lt;glossterm> or within &lt;prolog> as for other
                topics.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
              <p>For topic references, the &lt;sort-as> element may be included
                directly in the &lt;navtitle> or &lt;title> element within
                &lt;topicmeta> or as a child of &lt;topicmeta>.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
              <p>For definition list items, the &lt;sort-as> element should be
                included in the &lt;dt> element.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
              <p>For tables and simple tables, each &lt;entry> or &lt;stentry>
                element may contain a &lt;sort-as> element in order to define
                the sort key for that element relative to other entries in the
                same table column.</p>
            </li>
            <li>
              <p>Except as stated above, processors should only apply
                &lt;sort-as> elements that are either a direct child of the
                element to be sorted or a direct child of the title- or
                label-defining element of the element to be sorted.</p>
            </li>
            </ul></p>
          <p>When multiple &lt;sort-as> elements occur within a topic's titles
            or prolog or as direct children of non-topic elements, the first
            &lt;sort-as> in document order is used as the sort phrase. </p>
          <p>Sort phrases are determined after filtering and content reference
            resolution is applied.</p>
        </section>
        <section>
          <title>Inheritance</title>
          <p>+ topic/data ut-d/sort-as </p>
        </section>
        <section>
          <title>Example</title>
          <p>A glossary entry with a &lt;sort-as> within the
            &lt;glossterm>:<codeblock>&lt;glossentry id="gloss-dada">
  &lt;glossterm>&lt;sort-as value="dada"/>&amp;#x5927;&amp;#x5927;&lt;/glossterm>
    &lt;glossdef>Literally "big big".&lt;/glossdef>
&lt;/glossentry></codeblock></p>
          <p>A glossary entry with a &lt;sort-as> within
            &lt;prolog>:<codeblock>&lt;glossentry id="gloss-dada">
  &lt;glossterm>&amp;#x5927;&amp;#x5927;&lt;/glossterm>
  &lt;prolog>
    &lt;sort-as value="dada"/>
  &lt;/prolog>
    &lt;glossdef>Literally "big big".&lt;/glossdef>
&lt;/glossentry></codeblock></p>
        </section>
        <section>
          <title>Attributes</title>
          <simpletable
            id="foreign_attr"
            relcolwidth="2* 3* 1* 1* 1*">
            <sthead>
              <stentry>Name</stentry>
              <stentry>Description</stentry>
              <stentry>Data Type</stentry>
              <stentry>Default Value</stentry>
              <stentry>Required?</stentry>
            </sthead>
            <strow
              conref="../common/commonLRdefs.dita#commonLRdefs/univ-atts">
              <stentry/>
              <stentry/>
              <stentry/>
              <stentry/>
              <stentry/>
            </strow>
            <strow
              conref="../common/commonLRdefs.dita#commonLRdefs/global-atts">
              <stentry/>
              <stentry/>
              <stentry/>
              <stentry/>
              <stentry/>
            </strow>
            <strow
              conref="../common/commonLRdefs.dita#commonLRdefs/classandout">
              <stentry/>
              <stentry/>
              <stentry/>
              <stentry/>
              <stentry/>
            </strow>
          </simpletable>
        </section>
      </refbody>
    </reference>
  </topic>
</dita>
