<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN"
 "reference.dtd">
<reference id="IssueNumber00" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>DITA 1.3 proposed feature #13010</title>
<shortdesc>Provides an element that specifies the string on which its associated
    element should be sorted. Analogous to &lt;index-sort-as>.</shortdesc>
<refbody>
<section><title>Date and version information</title><p>Include the following information:<ul>
     <li>Completion date: June 2012</li>
        <li>Change history:<ul
          id="ul_msn_f2c_vh">
          <li>7 Oct 2012:<ul
            id="ul_sky_f2c_vh">
            <li>Resolved TBD for affected topics</li>
            <li>Corrected a typo</li>
            </ul></li>
          </ul></li>
     <li>Champion: Eliot Kimber</li>
     <li>Email discussion: <xref
          href="https://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/dita/200903/msg00060.html"
          format="html"
          scope="external">https://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/dita/200903/msg00060.html</xref></li>
    </ul></p></section>
<section><title>Original requirement</title><p>From Su-Laine Yeo, 23 March 2009:<lq>A requirement that comes to our
        attention from time to time is for glossary elements to include a
        &lt;glossary-sort-as> element, equivalent to the &lt;index-sort-as>
        element. It appears to be essential for making a glossary sort properly
        in Japanese; one thing I’ve heard from multiple organizations using DITA
        is that no existing tool does correct automatic sorting of Japanese
        glossary and index entries.</lq></p>
      <p>Subsequent discussion on the TC list led to agreement that the solution
        must be more general than just glossary entries, as there is a general
        requirement for authors to be able to control sorting of any element
        that might be sorted.</p></section>
<section><title>Use cases</title><p>The glossary use case is the most obvious: when glossary lists are
        automatically generated, it is often necessary to specify an alternative
        sort key for the term. This is especially true in ideographic languages
        such as Japanese and Simplified Chinese, where the collation order of
        ideographs cannot be determined from the characters themselves in most
        cases. In Japanese, a given sequence of ideographs may have different
        pronunciations depending on the meaning intended by the author. In
        Simplified Chinese, characters are sorted by their Pin-Yin
        transliteration. The transliteration can only be known reliably through
        dictionary lookup. Thus, in both cases it is often necessary to provide
        the pronunciation or transliteration of the ideographs in order to
        ensure correct sort order.</p>
      <p>Of course, Japanese and Simplified Chinese are only the most extreme
        examples. Even in English there may be a need to specify sort keys, such
        as having numeric terms sort by the spelling of the number or
        visa-versa.</p>
      <p>Other elements may be sorted, including topic specializations that have
        a sortable semantic, items in definition lists, or whatever. In short,
        any DITA element might need to be sorted in some presentation, so it is
        impossible to say with certainty that any given element type would never
        be sorted.</p></section>
<section><title>Benefits</title><p>Address the following questions:<ul>
     <li>This feature benefits users that need to reliably sort content where
          the content cannot be reliably sorted based only on the term value in
          all cases. This include all users generating glossaries.</li>
     <li>Users will be able to automate sorting reliably, where such automation
          is not today possible without the use of custom solutions.</li>
     <li>It is difficult to quantify the number of potential users, but glossary
          sorting, in particular, seems like a common requirement.</li>
     <li>This feature will have a significant impact for users who need it, as
          they will be able to produce their content in way that is not today
          possible.</li>
    </ul></p></section>
<section><title>Costs</title><p>Outline the impact (time and effort) of the feature on the following groups:<ul>
     <li>Maintainers of the DTDs and XSDs:<ul
          id="ul_wmx_21n_ng">
          <li>Adds one new element type, &lt;sort-as></li>
          </ul></li>
     <li>Editors of the DITA specification:<ul>
       <li>One new reference topic required. </li>
          <li>At least one topic in the architectural discussion of translation
            and localization to discuss the &lt;index-sort-as> and &lt;sort-as>
            elements and sorting and collation in general. Should mention the
            fact that for many languages collation and grouping details are
            implementation dependent and often depend on editorial rules or
            practice.</li>
       <li>How many existing topics will need to be edited? <p>I have identified
            the following topics that need to be updated in the Architectural Specification:<ul
            id="ul_bp4_5cc_vh">
            <li>"DITA Processing" mentions &lt;index-sort-as> and therefore also
              needs to mention &lt;sort-as></li>
            <li>"Translation and localization" mentions &lt;index-sort-as> and
              therefore also needs to mention &lt;sort-as></li>
            </ul></p></li>
       <li>This feature does not change the core DITA architecture in any
            way.</li>
      </ul></li>
     <li>Vendors of tools: <ul
          id="ul_nw3_j1n_ng">
          <li>DITA transformers that do collation will need to be updated to
            take sort keys into account when doing sorting.</li>
          <li>XML editors will need to allow authoring of the new element type.
            The element type should not require any particular additional
            support in the editor.</li>
          </ul></li>
     <li>DITA community-at-large:<ul
          id="ul_j1j_n1n_ng">
          <li>This feature provides a natural facility that will be familiar to
            anyone who has a sort control requirement. It is consistent with
            similar markup features in other common XML applications. It is
            consistent with the existing &lt;index-sort-as> feature. It should
            not add to the perception of complexity.</li>
          </ul></li>
    </ul></p></section>
<section><title>Technical requirements</title><p>Provide a detailed description of how the solution will work. Be sure to include the following details:<dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Element</dt>
          <dd>
            <p>Define a new element type, &lt;sort-as>, specialized from
              &lt;data>,  to the utilities domain, declared like
              so:<codeblock>&lt;!ENTITY % sort-as.content
  (#PCDATA |
   %text; |
   %keyword;)*
>
&lt;!ENTITY % sort-as.attributes
  "%data-element-atts;
  "
>
&lt;!ELEMENT sort-as
  %sort-as.content;
>
&lt;!ATTLIST sort-as
  %sort-as.attributes;
>

&lt;!ATTLIST sort-as   %global-atts;  class CDATA "+ topic/data ut-d/sort-as "    >
</codeblock></p>
            <p>The &lt;sort-as> element defines the string ("sort key") by which
              the containing element should be sorted or grouped (or the nearest
              ancestor to which sorting or grouping will be applied). The sort
              key may be specified in the @value attribute or in the content of
              &lt;sort-as>.</p>
            <p>The &lt;text> and &lt;keyword> elements are allowed in order to
              enable content referencing for specifying the sort phrase. If
              &lt;keyword> is used within &lt;sort-as>, it may get its effective
              value via @keyref in order to set the sort phrase value. If a
              &lt;keyword> uses @keyref and would otherwise also act as a
              navigation link, the link aspect of the &lt;keyword> element is
              ignored.</p>
            <p>For topics, the &lt;sort-as> element may be included directly in
              &lt;title>, &lt;searchtitle>, or &lt;navtitle> when the different
              forms of title need different sort phrases or, if the sort phrase
              is common to all titles, within the topic's prolog. </p>
            <p>For &lt;glossentry>, the &lt;sort-as> element may be included
              directly in &lt;glossterm> or within &lt;prolog> as for other
              topics.</p>
            <p>For topic references, the &lt;sort-as> element may be included
              directly in the &lt;navtitle> or &lt;title> element within
              &lt;topicmeta> or as a child of &lt;topicmeta>.</p>
            <p>For definition list items, the &lt;sort-as> should be included in
              the &lt;dt> element.</p>
            <p>TBD: Other special cases we need to account for?</p>
            <p>For other elements, the &lt;sort-as> element should be specified
              as a child of the element that contains the &lt;title> element (or
              otherwise determines the presentation title, where there is no
              literal title in the DITA source). </p>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
     <dlentry>
      <dt>Processing</dt>
          <dd>
            <p>Processors may choose to sort any elements for any reason. Common
              sort processing include glossary entries sorted to produce
              automatically-generated or automatically-sorted glossary lists,
              lists of parameters or reference entries in custom navigation
              structures, and so on.</p>
            <p>The details of sorting and grouping are necessarily
              implementation specific. Processors may provide any mechanism for
              defining or configuring collation and grouping details. Even where
              &lt;sort-as> has been specified two processors may produce
              different sorted and grouped results because they may use
              different collation and grouping rules. For example, one processor
              may be configured to sort English terms before non-English terms,
              another may be configured to sort them after.</p>
            <p>When sorting elements, each element to be sorted must have some
              inherent text on which it will be sorted in the absence of a
              &lt;sort-as> value. This text may be literal content in the DITA
              XML source or may be generated or constructed based on the
              semantics of the element involved (for example, it may be
              constructed from various attribute or metadata values). This text
              is the "base sort key" for the element. For elements with explicit
              or implicit titles, such as topics, figures, tables, and sections,
              the base sort key would normally be the title. Processors that do
              sorting should clearly document how the base sort key is
              determined for a given element type for which sorting is provided
              where the base sort key is not the title content (for elements
              that have titles).</p>
            <p>When &lt;sort-as> is specified, processors must construct the
              effective sort key by prepending the &lt;sort-as> sort key to the
              base sort key. This ensures that two items with the same sort-as
              key but different base sort keys will sort in the appropriate
              order.</p>
            <note
              othertype="example">For example, if the title of a topic is "24
              Hour Support Hotline" and the value of the &lt;sort-as> element is
              "twenty-four hour", then the effective sort key would be
              "twenty-four hour24 Hour Support Hotline".</note>
          </dd>
     </dlentry>
     <dlentry>
      <dt>Overall usability</dt>
      <dd>This proposal allows users to include &lt;sort-as> anywhere it might
            be necessary in order to facilitate correct sorting and grouping of
            content sorted for any purpose.</dd>
     </dlentry>
    </dl></p></section>
<section><title>Examples</title><p>A glossary entry with a &lt;sort-as> within the
        &lt;glossterm>:<codeblock>&lt;glossentry id="glossentry_rkr_xfn_ng">
  &lt;glossterm>&lt;sort-as value="dada"/>&amp;#x5927;&amp;#x5927;&lt;/glossterm>
    &lt;glossdef>Literally "big big".&lt;/glossdef>
&lt;/glossentry></codeblock></p>
      <p>A glossary entry with a &lt;sort-as> within
        &lt;prolog>:<codeblock>&lt;glossentry id="glossentry_rkr_xfn_ng">
  &lt;glossterm>&amp;#x5927;&amp;#x5927;&lt;/glossterm>
  &lt;prolog>
    &lt;sort-as value="dada"/>
  &lt;/prolog>
    &lt;glossdef>Literally "big big".&lt;/glossdef>
&lt;/glossentry></codeblock></p></section>
</refbody>
</reference><?Pub Caret -3?>
<?Pub *0000003625?>
