<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN"
 "reference.dtd">
<reference id="IssueNumber00" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>DITA 1.3 proposed feature 13044</title>
<shortdesc>Allow elements within %basic.ph; within &lt;data>.</shortdesc>
<refbody>
<section><title>Date and version information</title><p>
        <ul>
          <li>Date completed: 1 Oct 2012</li>
          <li>Champion: Eliot Kimber</li>
          <li>Email: None</li>
        </ul>
      </p></section>
<section>
      <title>Original requirement</title>
      <p>There's no reason to limit the content model of data to the degree it
        is in 1.2 as it makes an arbitrary and limiting decision about what is
        and isn't useful as metadata. In particular, data currently allows ph,
        keyword, and term, but not cite, xref, or q. For publishing applications
        there is a general requirement to be able to capture as metadata
        arbitrary content that could also occur within a topic body. Since, for
        example, &lt;cite> is not a specialization of &lt;ph>, &lt;cite> is not
        allowed within data, which is unnecessarily limiting. Note also that
        &lt;ph> allows pretty much all inline elements, so the current
        constraint is rather toothless anyway.</p>
    </section>
<section><title>Use cases</title><p>Use cases include:<ul
        id="ul_fyt_wm5_sh">
        <li>Metadata that includes more comprehensive information, such as
          content constituting a author biography or additional bibliographic
          information about a publication or topic.</li>
        <li>Descriptive metadata that includes additional markup not currently
          available.</li>
        </ul></p></section>
<section><title>Benefits</title><p>This change ensures that the content model of &lt;data> is not over
        constrained, allowing any kind of phrase within &lt;data>.</p></section>
<section><title>Costs</title><p>
        <ul>
          <li>Maintainers of the DTDs and XSDs:<ul
            id="ul_hh4_cvt_ng">
            <li>Update the content model for &lt;data> to use %basic.ph;.</li>
            </ul></li>
          <li>Editors of the DITA specification:<ul>
            <li>How many new topics will be required?<ul
              id="ul_g1q_jyt_ng">
              <li>No new topics</li>
              </ul></li>
            <li>How many existing topics will need to be edited?<ul
              id="ul_jkk_kyt_ng">
              <li>The generated content model description for &lt;data> will
                reflect the additional elements allowed by %basic.ph;.</li>
              </ul></li>
            <li>Will the feature require substantial changes to the information
              architecture of the DITA specification?<ul
              id="ul_ezr_ryt_ng">
              <li>The feature does not represent a substantial change to the
                architecture. </li>
              </ul></li>
            </ul></li>
          <li>Vendors of tools:<ul
            id="ul_g4z_vyt_ng">
            <li>XML editors will need to allow editing of the updated content
              model.</li>
            </ul></li>
          <li>DITA community-at-large. Will this feature add to the perception
            that DITA is becoming too complex? <ul
            id="ul_lsq_yyt_ng">
            <li>This change should not add to the perception of complexity for
              authors.</li>
            </ul></li>
        </ul>
      </p></section>
<section><title>Technical requirements</title><p>Modify the declarations for &lt;data> (and specializations of &lt;data>) as follows:<dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>DTDs</dt>
          <dd>Modify <filepath>commonElements.mod</filepath> by changing the
            declaration of %data.cnt;
            to:<codeblock>&lt;!ENTITY % data.cnt 
  "#PCDATA |
   %basic.ph; |
   %image; |
   %object; |
   %title;
  "
></codeblock></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>XSDs</dt>
          <dd>Modify <filepath>commonElementMod.xsd</filepath> by changing the
            declaration of the "data.cnt" group
            to:<codeblock>	&lt;!--&lt;!ENTITY % data.cnt             "%basic.ph;|%image;|%object;|%title;">-->
	&lt;xs:group name="data.cnt">
		&lt;xs:choice>
			&lt;xs:group ref="basc.ph"/>
			&lt;xs:group ref="image"/>
			&lt;xs:group ref="object"/>
			&lt;xs:group ref="title"/>
		&lt;/xs:choice>
	&lt;/xs:group></codeblock></dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>RNC</dt>
          <dd>Modify <filepath>commonElements.mod.rnc</filepath> to set the
            named pattern "data.cnt"
            to:<codeblock>text | basic.ph | image | object  | title</codeblock></dd>
        </dlentry>
        </dl></p></section>
<section><title>Examples</title><p>A &lt;data> element within &lt;author>, acting as an author biography:</p>
      <codeblock>&lt;topic id="topic_t4p_nr2_th">
  &lt;title>Test of extended content model for &amp;lt;data>&lt;/title>
  &lt;prolog>
    &lt;author><b>&lt;data
      name="author-bio">Ann Author is the author of many works, including
      &lt;cite>A Book You May Have Read&lt;/cite>. Learn more about Ms. Author at &lt;xref
      href="http://example.com/authors/ann-author"
      format="html"
      scope="external">http://example.com/authors/ann-author&lt;/xref>.&lt;/data></b>&lt;/author>
  &lt;/prolog>
  &lt;body>
    &lt;p/>
  &lt;/body>
&lt;/topic></codeblock></section>
</refbody>
</reference><?Pub Caret -3?>
<?Pub *0000003625?>
