<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN"
 "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
<concept id="reuse_file" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Reuse file</title>
<shortdesc>This file contains elements used by multiple files in the DITA specification.</shortdesc>
<conbody>
<section>
        <title>Short descriptions for archSpec topics</title>
<lines><!--Also used in "Basic concepts" topic-->
<ph id="topics-shortdesc">In DITA, a topic is the basic unit of authoring and reuse. All DITA topics have the same basic structure: a title and, optionally, a body of content. Topics can be generic or more specialized; specialized topics represent more specific information types or semantic roles, for example, &lt;concept>, &lt;task>, &lt;reference>, or &lt;learningContent>.</ph>
<ph id="maps-shortdesc">DITA maps are documents that organize topics and other resources into structured collections of information. DITA maps specify hierarchy and the relationships among the topics; they also provide the context in which keys are defined and resolved. DITA maps <keyword>should</keyword> have <filepath>.ditamap</filepath> file extensions.</ph>
<ph id="information-typing-shortdesc">Information typing is the practice of identifying types of topics, such as concept, reference, and task, to clearly distinguish between different types of information. Topics that answer different reader questions (How ...? What is ...?) can be categorized with different information types. The base information types provided by DITA specializations (i.e., technical content, machine industry, and learning and training) provide starter sets of information types that can be adopted immediately by many technical and business-related organizations.</ph>
<ph id="linking-shortdesc">DITA depends heavily on links. The purposes for which it provides links include defining the content and organization of publication structures (DITA maps), topic-to-topic navigation links and cross references, and reuse of content by reference. All DITA links use the same addressing facilities, either URI-based addresses or DITA-specific indirect addresses using keys and key references.</ph>
<ph id="addressing-shortdesc">DITA provides a number of facilities for establishing relationships among DITA elements and between DITA elements and non-DITA resources. All DITA relationships use the same addressing facilities irrespective of the semantics of the relationship established. DITA addresses are either direct, URI-based addresses, or indirect key-based addresses. Within DITA documents, individual elements are addressed by unique IDs specified on the common @id attribute. DITA defines two fragment identifier syntaxes for addressing DITA elements, one for topics and elements within maps and one for non-topic elements within topics.</ph>
<ph id="conref-shortdesc">The DITA @conref, @conkeyref, @conrefend, and related attributes provide a mechanism for reuse of content fragments within DITA topics or maps. </ph>
<ph id="conditional-processing-shortdesc">Attribute-based profiling, also known as conditional processing or applicability, is the use of classifying metadata that enables the filtering, flagging, searching, indexing, and other processing based on the association of an element with one or more values in a specific classification domain.</ph>
<ph id="configuration-shortdesc">A given DITA map or topic document is governed by a DITA document type that defines the set of structural modules (topic or map types), domain modules, and constraints modules that the map or topic can use.</ph>
<ph id="specialization-shortdesc">The specialization feature of DITA allows for the creation of new element types and attributes that are explicitly and formally derived from existing types. The resulting specialization allows for the blind interchange of all conforming DITA content and a minimum level of common processing for all DITA content. It also allows specialization-aware processors to add specialization-specific processing to existing base processing. </ph>
<ph id="contraints-shortdesc">Constraint modules define additional constraints for corresponding vocabulary modules in order to restrict content models or attribute lists for specific element types, remove extension elements from an integrated domain module, or replace base element types with domain-provided extension element types. Constraint modules do not and cannot change element semantics, only the details of how element types can be used in the context of a specific concrete document type. Because constraints can make optional elements required, documents that use the same vocabulary modules may still have incompatible constraints. Thus the use of constraints can affect the ability for content from one topic or map to be used directly in another topic or map.</ph>
</lines>     
</section>  

<section>
        <title>Short descriptions for langRef topics</title>
        <lines><!--Short description for <anchor>: Used in anchor.dita and dita_spec_23_mapstruct.dita-->
<ph id="anchor_shortdesc">The &lt;anchor> element provides an integration point that another map can reference in order to insert its navigation into the current navigation tree. For those familiar with Eclipse help systems, this serves the same purpose as the &lt;anchor> element in that system. It <term>may not</term><?Pub Caret?> be supported for all output formats.</ph>
<!--Short description for <navref>: Used in navref.dita and dita_spec_23_mapstruct.dita-->
<ph id="navtitle_shortdesc">The &lt;navref> element represents a pointer to another map which should be preserved as a transcluding link rather than resolved. Output formats that support such linking will integrate the referenced resource when displaying the referencing map to an end user. </ph></lines>
</section>
                        <section>
                                <title>Code blocks</title>
                                <codeblock id="concept-codeblock">&lt;concept id="concept"&gt;
 &lt;title&gt;Introduction to Bird Calling&lt;/title&gt;
 &lt;shortdesc&gt;If you wish to attract more birds to your Acme Bird Feeder,
learn the art of bird calling. Bird calling is an efficient way
to alert more birds to the presence of your bird feeder.&lt;/shortdesc&gt;
 &lt;conbody&gt;
   &lt;p&gt;Bird calling requires learning:&lt;/p&gt;
   &lt;ul&gt;
    &lt;li&gt;Popular and classical bird songs&lt;/li&gt;
    &lt;li&gt;How to whistle like a bird&lt;/li&gt;
   &lt;/ul&gt;
 &lt;/conbody&gt;
&lt;/concept&gt;</codeblock>
                        </section>
                        <section>
                                <title>Lists</title>
                                <ul id="cascading-attributes">
                                        <li>@audience, @platform, @product, @otherprops, @rev</li>
                                        <li>@props and any attribute specialized from @props</li>
                                        <li>@linking, @toc, @print, @search</li>
                                        <li>@format, @scope, @type</li>
                                        <li>@xml:lang, @dir, @translate</li>
                                        <li>@processing-role</li>
                                </ul>
                        </section>
        
<section>
        <title>Notes</title>
        <note id="deprecated_navtitle_attribute">The @navtitle attribute is
                deprecated in favor of the &lt;navtitle&gt; element. When both a
                &lt;navtitle&gt; element and a navtitle attribute are specified, the
                &lt;navtitle&gt; element should be used. </note>
</section>
        
<section>
        <title>Paragraphs</title>
        <p id="export-anchors-disclaimer">Many publishing systems for which DITA is used as a
                source format do not have a way to dynamically resolve content
                references; those systems will not see any benefit from this
                element. When DITA is used for those systems, behaviors related to
                this element should be ignored.</p>
                                <p id="module-version-xpl">The identifiers listed below are declared
                                        by the DITA Technical Committee for modules that are shipped
                                        with the DITA 1.2 distribution. Values that use a version
                                        number of 1.2 will always refer specifically to modules
                                        delivered with the DITA 1.2 specification. Values that use a
                                        version number of 1.x always refer to that module in the
                                        latest approved DITA 1.x specification (such as 1.1, 1.2, or
                                        1.3), but will not reference any modules in DITA 2.0 or
                                        later. Values without a version number refer to that module
                                        in the latest approved DITA specification, regardless of
                                        version.</p>
                                <p id="keys-attribute-syntax">The @keys attribute uses the following syntax:<ul
                                                id="ul_yxs_dr5_yl">
                                                <li>The value of the @keys attribute is one or more
                                                  space separated key names.</li>
                                                <li> Key names consist of characters that are legal
                                                  in a URI. The case of key names is
                                                  significant.</li>
                                                <li>The following characters are prohibited in key
                                                  names: "{", "}", "[", "]", "/", "#", "?", and
                                                  whitespace characters.</li>
                                        </ul></p>
</section>
        
<section>
        <title>Phrases</title>
<lines>
        <ph id="does-it-cascade">Does it cascade to child &lt;topicref> elements?</ph>
</lines>
</section>

<section>
        <title>Examples</title>
        <!--Content used in <example> element in anchor.dita and dita_23_mapstruct.dita-->
        <p id="anchor" rev="DITA1.2-errata">In this example, the map1.ditamap contains an &lt;anchor>
                element that has an ID of "a1". <fig>
                        <title>DITA map that contains an anchor</title>
                        <codeblock>&lt;map>
  &lt;title&gt;MyComponent tasks&lt;/title&gt;
  &lt;topicref navtitle="Start here" href="start.dita" toc="yes">
    &lt;navref mapref="othermap2.ditamap"/>
    &lt;navref mapref="othermap3.ditamap"/>
    &lt;anchor id="a1"/>
  &lt;/topicref>
&lt;/map></codeblock>
                </fig></p>
        <p id="anchoref" rev="DITA1.2-errata">The ID on an &lt;anchor&gt; element can be referenced by the
                @anchorref attribute on another map's &lt;map&gt; element. For example, the map to be
                integrated at that spot could be defined as follows.<fig>
                        <title>DITA map that references an anchor</title>
                        <codeblock>&lt;map anchorref="map1.ditamap#a1"&gt;
  &lt;title&gt;This map is pulled into the MyComponent task map&lt;/title&gt;
  ...
&lt;/map&gt;</codeblock>
                </fig></p>
</section>
                        <section id="dita-modules">
                                <title>Description of DITA modules</title>
                                <p>The tables below describe the modules that are defined by the
                                        DITA standard.<draft-comment>MP: Stan Doherty comment for
                                                1.2: consider providing table with one column per
                                                using doctype to make doctype usage of modules
                                                easier to scan</draft-comment></p>
                                <table id="table_tkp_rzn_yl">
                                        <title>Description of common modules</title>
                                        <tgroup cols="2">
                                                <colspec colname="col1" colwidth="8*"/>
                                                <colspec colname="col2" colwidth="26*"/>
                                                <thead>
                                                  <row valign="bottom">
                                                  <entry colname="col1">Common module files</entry>
                                                  <entry colname="col2">Purpose</entry>
                                                  </row>
                                                </thead>
                                                <tbody>
                                                  <row>
                                                  <entry colname="col1">Common elements
                                                  (commonElements)</entry>
                                                  <entry colname="col2">Defines all content elements
                                                  that may appear in both maps and topics.</entry>
                                                  </row>
                                                  <row>
                                                  <entry colname="col1">Metadata elements
                                                  (metaDecl)</entry>
                                                  <entry colname="col2">Defines meta elements that
                                                  may appear in both maps and topics</entry>
                                                  </row>
                                                  <row>
                                                  <entry colname="col1">Table elements
                                                  (tblDecl)</entry>
                                                  <entry colname="col2">Defines the complex tables
                                                  used within DITA, based on the OASIS Exchange
                                                  Table model.</entry>
                                                  </row>
                                                  <row>
                                                  <entry>DITA Architecture attribute (ditaarch.xsd) </entry>
                                                  <entry>XML Schema only - Defines the attribute
                                                  that defines DITA&apos;s architectural
                                                  version</entry>
                                                  </row>
                                                  <row>
                                                  <entry>XML namespace attributes (xml.xsd)</entry>
                                                  <entry>XML Schema only - Defines the attributes
                                                  with the XML namespace</entry>
                                                  </row>
                                                </tbody>
                                        </tgroup>
                                </table>
                                <table id="table_dlp_rzn_yl">
                                        <title>Description of domain modules</title>
                                        <tgroup cols="2">
                                                <colspec colname="col1" colwidth="8*"/>
                                                <colspec colname="col2" colwidth="22*"/>
                                                <thead>
                                                  <row valign="bottom">
                                                  <entry colname="col1">Domains</entry>
                                                  <entry colname="col2">Purpose</entry>
                                                  </row>
                                                </thead>
                                                <tbody>
                                                  <row>
                                                  <entry colname="col1">Indexing domain</entry>
                                                  <entry colname="col2">The indexing domain provides
                                                  several new elements for use with indexing. The
                                                  new elements allow authors to define "See" and
                                                  "See also" references, and to override the default
                                                  sort order for a term. </entry>
                                                  </row>
                                                  <row>
                                                  <entry colname="col1">Highlight domain</entry>
                                                  <entry colname="col2">The <ph rev="DITA1.2-errata"
                                                  >highlighting</ph> elements are used to highlight
                                                  text with styles (such as bold, italic, and
                                                  monospace). Never use these elements when a
                                                  semantically specific element is available. These
                                                  elements are not intended for use by specializers,
                                                  and are intended solely for use by authors when no
                                                  semantically appropriate element is available and
                                                  a formatting effect is required.</entry>
                                                  </row>
                                                  <row>
                                                  <entry colname="col1">Programming domain</entry>
                                                  <entry colname="col2">The programming domain
                                                  elements are used to define the syntax and to give
                                                  examples of programming languages. </entry>
                                                  </row>
                                                  <row>
                                                  <entry colname="col1">Software domain</entry>
                                                  <entry colname="col2">The software domain elements
                                                  are used to describe the operation of a software
                                                  program. </entry>
                                                  </row>
                                                  <row>
                                                  <entry colname="col1">UI domain</entry>
                                                  <entry colname="col2">The user interface domain
                                                  elements are used to describe the user interface
                                                  of a software program. </entry>
                                                  </row>
                                                  <row>
                                                  <entry colname="col1">Utilities domain</entry>
                                                  <entry colname="col2">The utilities domain
                                                  elements represent common features of a language
                                                  that may not necessarily be semantic, such as
                                                  image maps.</entry>
                                                  </row>
                                                  <row>
                                                  <entry colname="col1">Map Group domain</entry>
                                                  <entry colname="col2">The mapgroup domain elements
                                                  define, group, or reference content. </entry>
                                                  </row>
                                                  <row>
                                                  <entry colname="col1">xNAL domain</entry>
                                                  <entry colname="col2">The xNAL domain elements
                                                  represent a subset of the Extensible Name and
                                                  Address Standard. The domain can be included in
                                                  any topic type or map, although the
                                                  implementations provided by OASIS only include it
                                                  in the bookmap specialization. It is used to
                                                  encode information about the author or authors of
                                                  DITA information. </entry>
                                                  </row>
                                                  <row>
                                                  <entry>Hazard Statement domain </entry>
                                                  <entry>The hazard statement domain elements
                                                  represent labeling for product safety hazards that
                                                  readers need to be aware of. The domain can be
                                                  included in any topic type or map. Its elements
                                                  are used to inform readers about potential
                                                  hazards, consequences, and avoidance strategies
                                                  </entry>
                                                  </row>
                                                  <row>
                                                  <entry>Machine Industry domain</entry>
                                                  <entry>The machine-industry task domain contains
                                                  elements for use describing tasks that involve
                                                  machines or other pieces of hardware. </entry>
                                                  </row>
                                                  <row>
                                                  <entry>Delay Resolution domain</entry>
                                                  <entry>The delayed conref resolution domain
                                                  provides several elements for use when using DITA
                                                  in situations that enable delayed or run time
                                                  resolution of conref. The elements allow users to
                                                  resolve some conref values statically, while
                                                  delaying others for later resolution. </entry>
                                                  </row>
                                                  <row>
                                                  <entry>Abbreviate domain</entry>
                                                  <entry>The abbreviate domain element is used to
                                                  represent a reference to a term that may appear in
                                                  an abbreviated form (often an acronym). </entry>
                                                  </row>
                                                  <row>
                                                  <entry>Glossref domain</entry>
                                                  <entry>The glossref domain elements are
                                                  convenience elements that are used to reference
                                                  glossary topics or to reference multiple topics in
                                                  a single collection. </entry>
                                                  </row>
                                                  <row>
                                                  <entry>Classify domain</entry>
                                                  <entry>The classification domain elements are used
                                                  to identify subjects covered by the content
                                                  </entry>
                                                  </row>
                                                  <row>
                                                  <entry>Learning domain</entry>
                                                  <entry>The learning domain elements represent the
                                                  base elements that are used to create learning and
                                                  training content.</entry>
                                                  </row>
                                                  <row>
                                                  <entry>Learning Interaction Base domain</entry>
                                                  <entry>The learning interaction base domain
                                                  defines an "abstract" base type for all learning
                                                  assessments. </entry>
                                                  </row>
                                                  <row>
                                                  <entry>Learning Map domain</entry>
                                                  <entry>The learning and training map domain
                                                  organizes groups of topics as learning
                                                  objects</entry>
                                                  </row>
                                                  <row>
                                                  <entry>Learning Metadata domain</entry>
                                                  <entry>The learning and training metadata domain
                                                  describes specific characteristics of the learning
                                                  content. </entry>
                                                  </row>
                                                </tbody>
                                        </tgroup>
                                </table>
                                <table id="table_rlp_rzn_yl">
                                        <title>Description of topic and its specialization
                                                modules</title>
                                        <tgroup cols="2">
                                                <colspec colname="col1" colwidth="5*"/>
                                                <colspec colname="col2" colwidth="22*"/>
                                                <thead>
                                                  <row valign="bottom">
                                                  <entry colname="col1">Topic types</entry>
                                                  <entry colname="col2">Purpose</entry>
                                                  </row>
                                                </thead>
                                                <tbody>
                                                  <row>
                                                  <entry colname="col1">Topic</entry>
                                                  <entry colname="col2">
                                                  <lines>Topic modules

UI domain
Software domain
Highlight domain
Programming domain
Utilities domain
Indexing domain
Hazard Statement domain
Abbreviate domain </lines>
                                                  </entry>
                                                  </row>
                                                  <row>
                                                  <entry colname="col1">Base Topic</entry>
                                                  <entry colname="col2">
                                                  <lines>Topic modules

Highlight domain
Utilities domain
Indexing domain
Hazard Statement domain </lines>
                                                  </entry>
                                                  </row>
                                                  <row>
                                                  <entry>DITABase</entry>
                                                  <entry>
                                                  <lines>Concept modules
Topic modules
Reference modules
Task modules
General Task modules
Glossary Entry modules
GlossGroup modules

UI domain
Software domain
Highlight domain
Programming domain
Utilities domain
Indexing domain
Hazard Statement domain
Abbreviate domain </lines>
                                                  </entry>
                                                  </row>
                                                  <row>
                                                  <entry colname="col1">Concept</entry>
                                                  <entry colname="col2">
                                                  <lines>Concept modules
Topic modules

UI domain
Software domain
Highlight domain
Programming domain
Utilities domain
Indexing domain
Hazard Statement domain
Abbreviate domain </lines>
                                                  </entry>
                                                  </row>
                                                  <row>
                                                  <entry colname="col1">Glossary</entry>
                                                  <entry colname="col2">
                                                  <lines>Glossary Entry modules
Concept modules
Topic modules

UI domain
Software domain
Highlight domain
Programming domain
Utilities domain
Indexing domain
Hazard Statement domain
Abbreviate domain </lines>
                                                  </entry>
                                                  </row>
                                                  <row>
                                                  <entry>GlossGroup</entry>
                                                  <entry>
                                                  <lines>GlossGroup modules
Concept modules
Topic modules

UI domain
Software domain
Highlight domain
Programming domain
Utilities domain
Indexing domain
Hazard Statement domain
Abbreviate domain </lines>
                                                  </entry>
                                                  </row>
                                                  <row>
                                                  <entry colname="col1">Reference</entry>
                                                  <entry colname="col2">
                                                  <lines>Reference modules
Topic modules

UI domain
Software domain
Highlight domain
Programming domain
Utilities domain
Indexing domain
Hazard Statement domain
Abbreviate domain </lines>
                                                  </entry>
                                                  </row>
                                                  <row>
                                                  <entry colname="col1">Task</entry>
                                                  <entry colname="col2">
                                                  <lines>Task modules
Topic modules
Strict Taskbody module

UI domain
Software domain
Highlight domain
Programming domain
Utilities domain
Indexing domain
Hazard Statement domain
Abbreviate domain </lines>
                                                  </entry>
                                                  </row>
                                                  <row>
                                                  <entry>General Task</entry>
                                                  <entry>
                                                  <lines>Task modules
Topic modules

UI domain
Software domain
Highlight domain
Programming domain
Utilities domain
Indexing domain
Hazard Statement domain
Abbreviate domain </lines>
                                                  </entry>
                                                  </row>
                                                  <row>
                                                  <entry>Machinery Task</entry>
                                                  <entry>
                                                  <lines>Task modules
Topic modules

UI domain
Highlight domain
Utilities domain
Indexing domain
Hazard Statement domain
Abbreviate domain
Machine Industry domain</lines>
                                                  </entry>
                                                  </row>
                                                  <row>
                                                  <entry>Learning Assessment</entry>
                                                  <entry>
                                                  <lines>Learning Assessment modules
Topic modules

Highlight domain
Utilities domain
Indexing domain
Learning domain
Learning Interaction Base domain
Learning metadata domain</lines>
                                                  </entry>
                                                  </row>
                                                  <row>
                                                  <entry>Learning Content</entry>
                                                  <entry>
                                                  <lines>Learning Content modules
Learning Assessment modules
Learning Summary modules
Concept modules
Topic modules
Reference modules
Task modules

Highlight domain
Utilities domain
Indexing domain
Learning domain
Learning Interaction Base domain
Learning metadata domain</lines>
                                                  </entry>
                                                  </row>
                                                  <row>
                                                  <entry>Learning Overview</entry>
                                                  <entry>
                                                  <lines>Learning Overview modules
Topic modules

Highlight domain
Utilities domain
Indexing domain
Learning domain
Learning Interaction Base domain
Learning metadata domain</lines>
                                                  </entry>
                                                  </row>
                                                  <row>
                                                  <entry>Learning Plan</entry>
                                                  <entry>
                                                  <lines>Learning Plan modules
Topic modules

Highlight domain
Utilities domain
Indexing domain
Learning domain
Learning Interaction Base domain
Learning metadata domain</lines>
                                                  </entry>
                                                  </row>
                                                  <row>
                                                  <entry>Learning Summary</entry>
                                                  <entry>
                                                  <lines>Learning Summary modules
Topic modules

Highlight domain
Utilities domain
Indexing domain
Learning domain
Learning Interaction Base domain
Learning metadata domain</lines>
                                                  </entry>
                                                  </row>
                                                </tbody>
                                        </tgroup>
                                </table>
                                <table id="table_emp_rzn_yl">
                                        <title>Description of map and its specialization
                                                modules</title>
                                        <tgroup cols="2">
                                                <colspec colname="col1" colwidth="5*"/>
                                                <colspec colname="col2" colwidth="22*"/>
                                                <thead>
                                                  <row valign="bottom">
                                                  <entry colname="col1">Map types</entry>
                                                  <entry colname="col2">Purpose</entry>
                                                  </row>
                                                </thead>
                                                <tbody>
                                                  <row>
                                                  <entry colname="col1">Map</entry>
                                                  <entry colname="col2">
                                                  <lines>Map modules

Map Group domain
Indexing domain
Delay Resolution domain
Glossref domain

UI domain
Software domain
Highlight domain
Programming domain
Utilities domain
Indexing domain
Hazard Statement domain
Abbreviate domain </lines>
                                                  </entry>
                                                  </row>
                                                  <row>
                                                  <entry>Base Map</entry>
                                                  <entry>
                                                  <lines>Map modules

Map Group domain
Indexing domain
Delay Resolution domain

Highlight domain
Utilities domain
Hazard Statement domain</lines>
                                                  </entry>
                                                  </row>
                                                  <row>
                                                  <entry colname="col1">Bookmap</entry>
                                                  <entry colname="col2">
                                                  <lines>Bookmap modules
Map modules

Map Group domain
Indexing domain
Delay Resolution domain

UI domain
Software domain
Highlight domain
Programming domain
Utilities domain
Indexing domain
Hazard Statement domain
Abbreviate domain </lines>
                                                  </entry>
                                                  </row>
                                                  <row>
                                                  <entry>Classification Map</entry>
                                                  <entry>
                                                  <lines>Map modules

Map Group domain
Indexing domain
Delay Resolution domain
Classification domain

Highlight domain
Utilities domain
Hazard Statement domain</lines>
                                                  </entry>
                                                  </row>
                                                  <row>
                                                  <entry>Subject Scheme</entry>
                                                  <entry>
                                                  <lines>Subject Scheme modules
Map modules

Map Group domain

Highlight domain
Utilities domain
Hazard Statement domain</lines>
                                                  </entry>
                                                  </row>
                                                  <row>
                                                  <entry>Learning Map</entry>
                                                  <entry>
                                                  <lines>Map modules

Map Group domain
Indexing domain
Delay Resolution domain
Learning Metadata domain
Learning Map domain

Highlight domain
Utilities domain
Hazard Statement domain              </lines>
                                                  </entry>
                                                  </row>
                                                  <row>
                                                  <entry>Learning Bookmap</entry>
                                                  <entry>
                                                  <lines>Map modules
Bookmap modules

Map Group domain
Indexing domain
Delay Resolution domain
xNAL Domain
Learning Metadata domain
Learning Map domain

Highlight domain
Utilities domain
Hazard Statement domain                </lines>
                                                  <?Pub Caret 201?>
                                                  </entry>
                                                  </row>
                                                </tbody>
                                        </tgroup>
                                </table>
                                <table id="table_6351c5ad-8b39-4a43-8fab-438ece181818">
                                        <title>Description of constraint modules</title>
                                        <tgroup cols="2">
                                                <colspec colname="col1" colwidth="5*"/>
                                                <colspec colname="col2" colwidth="22*"/>
                                                <thead>
                                                  <row valign="bottom">
                                                  <entry colname="col1">Constraint types</entry>
                                                  <entry colname="col2">Purpose</entry>
                                                  </row>
                                                </thead>
                                                <tbody>
                                                  <row>
                                                  <entry>Strict Taskbody</entry>
                                                  <entry>The strict task body has a constrained
                                                  structure. </entry>
                                                  </row>
                                                  <row>
                                                  <entry>Machinery Taskbody</entry>
                                                  <entry>The machinery task body makes use of
                                                  elements prelreqs and closereqs instead of prereq
                                                  and postreq</entry>
                                                  </row>
                                                </tbody>
                                        </tgroup>
                                </table>
                        </section>
</conbody>
</concept>
</dita>
