<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN"
 "reference.dtd">
<reference id="Feature13098_Stage3" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Stage 3 proposal: Feature 13098</title>
<shortdesc>Add an attribute value to the note element's type attribute
to distinguish troubleshooting information.</shortdesc>
<refbody>
<section><title>Champion</title><p>DITA Technical Communications
Subcommittee.</p></section>
<section><title>Tracking information</title>
<simpletable frame="all" relcolwidth="1.03* 1.0* 1.78*">
<sthead>
<stentry>Event</stentry>
<stentry>Date</stentry>
<stentry>Links</stentry>
</sthead>
<strow>
<stentry>Stage 1 proposal accepted</stentry>
<stentry>17 January 2012</stentry>
<stentry><xref scope="external" href="https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/dita/download.php/44896/minutes20120117.txt">https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/dita/download.php/44896/minutes20120117.txt</xref></stentry>
</strow>
<strow>
<stentry>Stage 2 proposal submitted</stentry>
<stentry>19 June 2012</stentry>
<stentry><xref scope="external" href="https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/dita-techcomm/download.php/46338/NoteAttributeTroubleValue13098.html">https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/dita-techcomm/download.php/46338/NoteAttributeTroubleValue13098.html</xref></stentry>
</strow>
<strow>
<stentry>Stage 2 proposal discussed</stentry>
<stentry>19 June 2012</stentry>
<stentry><xref scope="external" href="https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/dita/download.php/46335/minutes20120619.txt">https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/dita/download.php/46335/minutes20120619.txt</xref></stentry>
</strow>
<strow>
<stentry>Stage 2 proposal approved</stentry>
<stentry>26 June 2012</stentry>
<stentry><xref scope="external" href="https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/dita/download.php/46405/minutes-2012jun26.txt">https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/dita/download.php/46405/minutes-2012jun26.txt</xref></stentry>
</strow>
<strow>
<stentry>Stage 3 proposal submitted to reviewers</stentry>
<stentry/>
  <stentry>Thilo Buchholtz, Stan Doherty, Kris Eberlein, JoAnn Hackos, Eliot Kimber</stentry>
</strow>
<strow>
<stentry>Stage 3 proposal (this document) submitted</stentry>
<stentry/>
<stentry/>
</strow>
</simpletable></section>
<section><title>Approved technical requirements</title><p>Add trouble admonition (note type): Use cases for a new note type, to be used for troubleshooting
information in any topic. This is likely useful in topics developed for online help and
some reference and conceptual topics where it makes sense to provide additional
information about what may go wrong and how to address such situations.</p></section>
<section><title>Dependencies or interrelated proposals</title><p>This change to note@type does not depend on, or interact with, any other submitted proposals.
However, three other proposals relating to troubleshooting semantics are also being
considered. The Technical Communication Subcommittee will provide the text explaining the
interrelationships of these elements and attributes with the set of three proposals.</p><dl
compact="no">
<dlentry>
<dt>13086</dt>
<dd>Troubleshooting element within &lt;step>. Status: phase 3</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>13096</dt>
<dd>Troubleshooting section within &lt;taskbody>. Status: phase 3</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>13097</dt>
<dd>Troubleshooting topic. Status: phase 2</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></section>
<section><title>Modified DTDs</title><p>Changes impact base/dtd/commonElements.mod
as follows (changes are in <b>bold</b>):</p><codeblock>  &lt;!ENTITY % note.attributes
"type 
(attention|
caution | 
danger | 
fastpath | 
important | 
note |
notice |
other | 
remember | 
restriction |
tip |
<b>trouble |</b>
warning |
-dita-use-conref-target) 
#IMPLIED 
spectitle 
CDATA 
#IMPLIED
othertype 
CDATA 
#IMPLIED
%univ-atts;
outputclass
CDATA 
#IMPLIED"
>
</codeblock></section>
<section><title>Modified specification documentation</title><p>The specification impact is small. Only topic common/thetypeattribute.dita, in the Language
Reference, is affected.</p><simpletable
relcolwidth="20* 40* 40*">
<sthead>
<stentry>Location</stentry>
<stentry>Text in 1.2</stentry>
<stentry>Proposed changes for 1.3</stentry>
</sthead>
<strow>
<stentry>3.1.1.2.24 note</stentry>
<stentry>type
(note|tip|fastpath|restriction|important|remember|attention|caution|notice|danger|warning|other|-
dita-use-conref-target)</stentry>
<stentry>type
(note|tip|fastpath|restriction|important|remember|attention|caution|notice|danger|warning|trouble|other|-
dita-use-conref-target)</stentry>
</strow>
<strow>
<stentry>3.4.2.8 The type attribute</stentry>
<stentry>
<p><b><i>Using type in a note element</i></b></p>
<p>In a note element, this defines the type of note. For example, if the note is a
tip, the word <b>Tip</b> may be used to draw the reader's attention to it. The
values danger, warning, and notice have new or additional meanings with DITA 1.2
that are based on ANSI Z535 and ISO 3864 regulations.</p>
<p>If type is set to other, the value of the othertype attribute may be used. If you
use othertype, many processors will require additional information on how to process
the value. Allowable values for the type attribute are:</p>
</stentry>
<stentry>
<p><b><i>Using type in a note element</i></b></p>   <p>In a note element, this defines
the type of note. For example, if the note is a tip, the word <b>Tip</b> may be used
to draw the reader's attention to it. The values danger, warning, and notice have
new or additional meanings with DITA 1.2 that are based on ANSI Z535 and ISO 3864
regulations.</p>   <p>If type is set to other, the value of the othertype attribute
may be used. If you use othertype, many processors will require additional
information on how to process the value. Allowable values for the type attribute
are:<draft-comment>add after "warning"</draft-comment></p><dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>trouble</dt>
<dd>If the unit is not working, verify that it has been plugged in. Provides
corrective actions.</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl>
</stentry>
</strow>
</simpletable></section>
</refbody>
</reference>