<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2005, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN"
 "concept.dtd">
<concept id="dita_spec_2_1_info_concepts"  xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Concepts</title>
<shortdesc>DITA concept topics answer "What is..." questions. They include
a body-level element with a basic topic structure, including sections and
examples.</shortdesc>
<conbody>
<section><title>Why concepts?</title><p>Concepts provide background that helps
readers understand essential information about a product, interface, or task.
Often, a concept is an extended definition of a major abstraction such as
a process or function. Conceptual information may explain a product and how
it fits into its category of products. Conceptual information helps users
to map their existing knowledge to tasks and other essential information about
a product or system.</p></section>
<section><title>Concept structure</title><p>The &lt;concept> element is the
top-level element for a DITA concept topic. Every concept contains a &lt;title>
and a &lt;conbody> and optional  &lt;titlealts>, &lt;shortdesc> or &lt;abstract>, &lt;prolog>, &lt;related-links>,
and nested topics<?Pub Caret?>.</p><p>The &lt;conbody> element is the main
body-level element for a concept. Like the body element of a general topic, &lt;conbody>
allows paragraphs, lists, and other elements as well as sections and examples.
But &lt;conbody> has a constraint that a section or an example can be followed
only by other sections or examples.</p></section>
<example><p>Here is an example of a simple concept topic.</p><pre xml:space="preserve">
&lt;concept id="concept">
 &lt;title>Bird Calling&lt;/title>
 &lt;conbody>
  &lt;p>Bird calling attracts birds.&lt;/p>
  &lt;example>
   &lt;p>Bird calling requires learning:&lt;/p>
   &lt;ul>
    &lt;li>Popular and classical bird songs&lt;/li>
    &lt;li>How to whistle like a bird&lt;/li>
   &lt;/ul>
  &lt;/example>
 &lt;/conbody>
&lt;/concept>
</pre></example>
<section><title>Modules</title><sl>
<sli>concept.mod (DTD)</sli>
<sli>conceptMod.xsd, conceptGrp.xsd (Schema)</sli>
</sl></section>
</conbody>
</concept>
<?Pub *0000002195?>
