<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2005, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN"
 "concept.dtd">
<concept id="dita_spec_intro_bookmap">
<title>Bookmap</title>
<shortdesc>The DITA bookmap specialization represents the key markup requirements
for managing DITA content through book-oriented publication processes, including
book metadata and book structures for organizing content.</shortdesc>
<concept id="dita_spec_intro_bookmap_whatis">
<title>Why bookmaps?</title>
<shortdesc>Books and other printed media are popular ways to present DITA
content. By specializing the general DITA map structure into the general structure
and affordances used by most book-oriented DTDs, bookmaps enable users to
organize their DITA information into front matter, parts, chapters, and so
forth. A rich set of metadata allows for recording information about the book,
such as its authors and owners, versions, and production history. </shortdesc>
</concept>
<concept id="dita_spec_intro_bookmap_structure" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Bookmap structure</title>
<shortdesc>The &lt;bookmap&gt; element is the top-level element for a DITA
bookmap. Most of the content for a bookmap is optional, allowing for restrictive
specializations.</shortdesc>
<conbody>
<p>A bookmap allows for:</p>
<ul>
<li>an intial title or booktitle (which has more structure),</li>
<li>book metadata (publisher, author, copyright holders and dates, etc.),</li>
<li>front matter (placement for Table of Contents and other preliminary information), </li>
<li>any number of chapters or parts (which can group chapters),</li>
<li>any number of appendixes,</li>
<li>back matter (similar roles as for front matter),</li>
<li>reltable</li>
</ul>
<p>In typical book-oriented DTDs or Schemas, authors commonly manage major
content structures as external entities, separate from the body of the book,
and referenced as imbeds into that overall structure. Bookmap follows the
same organizational approach, using the topicref-based structure of DITA maps
as the archetype for the major divisions of a book.</p>
<p>Here is an example of a simple bookmap. It includes additional chapter
content by normal reference, by direct nesting of topicrefs to topics, and
by referencing a separate map as the content of a chapter.</p>
<pre>&lt;bookmap ditaarch:DITAArchVersion=&quot;1.1&quot; id=&quot;taskbook&quot; xmlns:ditaarch=&quot;http://dita.oasis-open.org/architecture/2005/&quot;&gt;
  &lt;booktitle&gt;
    &lt;mainbooktitle&gt;Product tasks&lt;/mainbooktitle&gt;
    &lt;booktitlealt&gt;Tasks and what they do&lt;/booktitlealt&gt;
  &lt;/booktitle&gt;
  &lt;bookmeta&gt;
    &lt;author&gt;John Doe&lt;/author&gt;
    &lt;bookrights&gt;
      &lt;copyrfirst&gt;
        &lt;year&gt;2006&lt;/year&gt;
      &lt;/copyrfirst&gt;
      &lt;bookowner&gt;
        &lt;person href=&quot;task_preface.xml&quot;&gt;Jane Doe&lt;/person&gt;
      &lt;/bookowner&gt;
    &lt;/bookrights&gt;
  &lt;/bookmeta&gt;
  &lt;frontmatter&gt;
    &lt;preface/&gt;
  &lt;/frontmatter&gt;
  &lt;chapter format=&quot;ditamap&quot; href=&quot;installing.ditamap&quot;/&gt;
  &lt;chapter href=&quot;configuring.xml&quot;/&gt;
  &lt;chapter href=&quot;maintaining.xml&quot;&gt;
    &lt;topicref href=&quot;maintainstorage.xml&quot;/&gt;
    &lt;topicref href=&quot;maintainserver.xml&quot;/&gt;
    &lt;topicref href=&quot;maintaindatabase.xml&quot;/&gt;
  &lt;/chapter&gt;
  &lt;appendix href=&quot;task_appendix.xml&quot;/&gt;
&lt;/bookmap&gt;</pre>
</conbody>
</concept>
<concept id="dita_spec_intro_bookmap_modules">
<title>Modules</title>
<conbody>
<p>DTD:</p>
<pre>bookmap.dtd
bookmap.mod
</pre>
<p>Schema:</p>
<pre>bookmap.xsd
bookmapGrp.xsd
bookmapMod.xsd</pre>
</conbody>
</concept><?Pub Caret?>
</concept>
<?Pub *0000003807?>
