<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2005, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN"
 "concept.dtd">
<concept id="dita_spec_21_info_refs"  xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Reference</title>
<shortdesc>Reference topics describe regular features of a subject or product,
such as commands in a programming language.</shortdesc>
<conbody>
<section><title>Why reference?</title><p>In technical information, reference
topics are often used to cover subjects such as the commands in a programming
language. Reference topics can hold anything that has regular content, such
as ingredients for food recipes, bibliographic lists, catalogues, and the
like. Reference topics provide quick access to facts. Information needed for
deeper understanding of a reference topic or to perform related procedures
should be provided in a concept or task topic.</p></section>
<section><title>Reference structure</title><p>The &lt;reference> element is
the top-level element for a reference topic. Every reference topic contains
a &lt;title> and a &lt;refbody> and optional  &lt;titlealts>, &lt;shortdesc>
or &lt;abstract>, &lt;prolog>, &lt;related-links>, and nested topics.</p><p>The &lt;refbody>
element holds the main content of the reference topic. Reference topics limit
the body structure to tables (both simple and standard), property lists, syntax
sections, and generic sections and examples. </p><p>All of the elements of &lt;refbody>
are optional and may appear in any sequence and number. </p><dl><dlentry>
<dt>&lt;section></dt>
<dd>Represents an organizational division in a reference topic. Sections organize
subsets of information within a larger topic. You can only include a simple
list of peer sections in a topic; sections cannot be nested. A section may
have an optional title.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>&lt;refsyn></dt>
<dd>Contains syntax or signature content (for example, a command-line utility's
calling syntax, or an API's signature). The &lt;refsyn> contains a brief,
possibly diagrammatic description of the subject's interface or high-level
structure.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>&lt;example></dt>
<dd>Provides containing examples that illustrate or support the current topic.
The &lt;example> element has the same content model as &lt;section>. </dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>&lt;table></dt>
<dd>Organizes information according into a tabular  rows and columns structure.
Table markup also allows for more complex structures, including spanning rows
and columns, as well as table captions. </dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>&lt;simpletable></dt>
<dd>Holds information in regular rows and columns and does not allow for a
caption.  </dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>&lt;properties></dt>
<dd>Lists properties and their types, values, and descriptions.</dd>
</dlentry></dl></section>
<example>Here’s an example of a reference topic.<pre xml:space="preserve">
&lt;reference id="boldproperty">
&lt;title>Bold property&lt;/title>
&lt;shortdesc>(Read-write) Whether to use a bold font for the specified
text string.&lt;/shortdesc>
&lt;refbody>
  &lt;refsyn>
    &lt;synph>
      &lt;var>object&lt;/var>&lt;delim>.&lt;/delim>&lt;kwd>Font&lt;/kwd>&lt;delim>.&lt;/delim>
      &lt;kwd>Bold&lt;/kwd>&lt;delim> = &lt;/delim>&lt;var>trueorfalse&lt;/var>
    &lt;/synph>
  &lt;/refsyn>
  &lt;properties>
    &lt;property>
      &lt;proptype>Data type&lt;/proptype>
      &lt;propvalue>Boolean&lt;/propvalue>
    &lt;/property>
    &lt;property>
      &lt;proptype>Legal values&lt;/proptype>
      &lt;propvalue>True (1) or False (0)&lt;/propvalue>
    &lt;/property>
  &lt;/properties>
&lt;/refbody>
&lt;/reference>
</pre><draft-comment>from jeff ogden: consider adding example output for all
examples</draft-comment><draft-comment>MP response: aim for comprehensive
example addition in 1.2<?Pub Caret?></draft-comment></example>
<section><title>Modules</title><sl>
<sli>reference.mod (DTD)</sli>
<sli>referenceMod.xsd, referenceGrp.xsd (Schema)</sli>
</sl></section>
</conbody>
</concept>
<?Pub *0000004052?>
