<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="concept_dr5_htt_hj">
 <title>Troubleshooting information</title>
 <shortdesc>Troubleshooting information is invaluable to technical content users because it provides advice to correct problems with task performance. </shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <p>User studies have indicated that users find troubleshooting information invaluable because they
   frequently access technical information only when they have encountered a problem in performing a
   task.</p>
  <p>The DITA troubleshooting elements added in DITA 1.3 encourage authors to provide
   troubleshooting information directly within a task, at the point of need, and to label the
   troubleshooting information appropriately. Minimalism research indicates that users are most
   likely to read troubleshooting information if it is visibly labeled. We recommend that
   implementations use stylesheets that add symbols or text to draw attention to the troubleshooting
   elements in the topics. </p>
  <p>Troubleshooting information may be added to an individual step in a DITA Task and may be added
   after the steps are completed. Troubleshooting information may also be added in any topic type as
   an attribute on the &lt;note> element. However, it is strongly recommended that users select
   either &lt;steptroubleshooting> or &lt;tasktroubleshooting> when working on a task topic, rather
   than selecting the note attribute for trouble. </p>
  <p>The examples below illustrate the three options.</p>
  <section>
   <title>Step troubleshooting</title>
   <p>Troubleshooting information may be added following a step in a procedure if it is likely that
    the user will encounter a problem in performing the step. </p>
   <p>The &lt;steptroubleshooting> element may occur alone following the &lt;cmd> element in the
    &lt;step> element. The &lt;steptroubleshooting> element ends the &lt;step> element. Another
    element, such as &lt;info> or &lt;stepxmp>, may not be added after the &lt;steptroubleshooting>
    element. </p>
   <p>The &lt;steptroubleshooting> element may not be inserted in the &lt;substeps> element or in
    other subelements of the &lt;step> element.</p>
   <p>The first example shows troubleshooting information added to a step. The second example shows
    the troubleshooting information following a step result.</p>
   <codeblock><![CDATA[    
  <task>
    . . .
    <steps>
      <step>
        <cmd>Select <uicontrol>Shut Down</uicontrol> from the
          <uicontrol>File</uicontrol> Menu.</cmd>
        <steptroubleshooting>
          <p>[symbol or words here]If a problem with the
            computer prevents you from choosing Shut Down—for example, if
            the computer “freezes” so that the pointer does not respond to
            the trackpad—you can turn off the computer by holding down the
            Control, Option, Command, and Power On keys at the same
            time.</p>
        </steptroubleshooting>
      </step>
    </steps>
    . . .
  </task>]]></codeblock>
   <codeblock><![CDATA[
  <task>
    . . .
    <steps>
      . . .
      <step>
        <cmd>Select the element for which you want to assign a conditional-
          processing attribute, and, in the <wintitle>Attributes</wintitle>
          window, select the conditional-processing attribute.</cmd>
        <stepresult>
          <p>The permissible values for the attribute are displayed in a
            drop-down list.</p>
        </stepresult>
        <steptroubleshooting>
          <p>If the list of controlled values is not displayed, ensure
            that the root map map is opened in the
            <wintitle>DITA Maps Manager</wintitle> window.</p>
        </steptroubleshooting>
      </step>
    </steps>
    . . .
  </task>]]></codeblock>
  </section>
  <section>
   <title>Task troubleshooting</title>
   <p>Troubleshooting information may be added after the completion of a task to assist the user in
    correcting a problem in completing the task. The &lt;tasktroubleshooting> element may follow the
    &lt;result> element and precede &lt;example> element as an optional element, or it may stand
    alone following the end of the steps. </p>
   <p>The &lt;tasktroubleshooting> element may occur alone following the end of the &lt;steps> but
    if it is placed in combination with other elements following &lt;steps>, it must follow
    &lt;example> and precede &lt;postreq>.</p>
   <codeblock><![CDATA[
  <task>
    . . .
    <steps>
    . . .
      <step>
        <cmd>When the fast blinking stops, press
          <uicontrol>small espresso</uicontrol>.</cmd>
      </step>
    </steps>
    <tasktroubleshooting>
      <p>[symbol or words here] If the <uicontrol>small espresso</uicontrol>
        button is not lit, recycle the unit by turning the external
        <uicontrol>Power</uicontrol> off and on.</p>
    </tasktroubleshooting>
  </task>]]></codeblock>
  </section>
  <section>
   <title>Troubleshooting note</title>
   <p>A &lt;note> may include the attribute @trouble to add a word or a symbol informing the user
    that the note deals with a potential problem that the user might encounter in understanding a
    concept, executing a task, or referring to factual information. The @trouble attribute is
    available on any &lt;note> element in any DITA topic type.</p>
   <p>It is strongly recommended that the troubleshooting note type not be used in lieu of
    &lt;steptroubleshooting> or &lt;tasktroubleshooting> in a task topic.</p>
   <codeblock><![CDATA[
  <concept>
    . . .
    <p>If you expose your camera to sudden changes in temperature or
      humidity, you may experience some condensation in the camera.
      You should avoid the possibility of condensation because it may
      result in soil on the lens or the monitor, cause mold, or damage
      the camera.</p>
    <note type="trouble">
      <p>If you do get condensation, turn off the camera and wait about
        two hours before using it. Once the camera adjusts to the
        surrounding temperature, the fogging will clear naturally.</p>
    </note>
    . . .
  </concept>]]></codeblock>
  </section>
 </conbody>
</concept>
