<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
  <topic id="topic_aqh_5zt_3h">
    <title>Stage 3 proposal: Feature 13104, Allow @keyref on &lt;object></title>
    <shortdesc>Adds key references to &lt;object> and &lt;param> as alternatives to direct URI references from &lt;object> and &lt;param> elements.</shortdesc>
    <body>
      <section>
        <title>Champion</title>
        <p>Eliot Kimber</p>
      </section>
      <section>
        <title>Tracking information</title>
        <simpletable frame="all" relcolwidth="1.0* 1.0* 1.0*">
          <sthead>
            <stentry>Event</stentry>
            <stentry>Date</stentry>
            <stentry>Links</stentry>
          </sthead>
          <strow>
            <stentry>Stage 1 proposal accepted</stentry>
            <stentry>14 Feb 2012</stentry>
            <stentry><xref
              href="http://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/dita/download.php/45204/minutes20120214.txt"
              format="txt"
              scope="external">http://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/dita/download.php/45204/minutes20120214.txt</xref></stentry>
          </strow>
          <strow>
            <stentry>Stage 2 proposal submitted</stentry>
            <stentry>18 Jun 2013</stentry>
            <stentry>DITA: <xref
              href="https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/dita/download.php/49588/proposal-13104-keyref-on-object.dita"
              scope="external"
              format="html">https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/dita/download.php/49588/proposal-13104-keyref-on-object.dita</xref>, HTML: <xref
              href="https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/dita/download.php/49589/proposal-13104-keyref-on-object.html"
              format="html"
              scope="external">https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/dita/download.php/49589/proposal-13104-keyref-on-object.html</xref></stentry>
          </strow>
          <strow>
            <stentry>Stage 2 proposal discussed</stentry>
            <stentry>2 July 2013</stentry>
            <stentry><xref
              href="https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/dita/download.php/49809/latest/minutes20130702.txt"
              format="txt"
              scope="external">https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/dita/download.php/49809/latest/minutes20130702.txt</xref></stentry>
          </strow>
          <strow>
            <stentry>Stage 2 proposal approved</stentry>
            <stentry>16 July 2013</stentry>
            <stentry><xref
              href="https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/dita/download.php/50041/latest/minutes20130716.txt"
              format="txt"
              scope="external">https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/dita/download.php/50041/latest/minutes20130716.txt</xref></stentry>
          </strow>
          <strow>
            <stentry>Stage 3 proposal submitted to reviewers</stentry>
            <stentry/>
            <stentry>Include names of reviewers</stentry>
          </strow>
          <strow>
            <stentry>Stage 3 proposal (this document) submitted</stentry>
            <stentry/>
            <stentry/>
          </strow>
        </simpletable>
      </section>
      <section>
        <title>Approved technical requirements</title>
        <p>The &lt;object> and &lt;param> elements may make references to resources, &lt;object> via the @data attribute, &lt;param> via the @value attribute when @valuetype is "ref". </p>
        <p>In both cases the value is a URI. </p>
        <p>It needs to be possible to use keys in place of these URI references.</p>
      </section>
      <section>
        <title>Dependencies or interrelated proposals</title>
        <p>No dependencies or related proposals.</p>
      </section>
      <section>
        <title>Modified DTDs</title>
        <p>This proposal adds attributes to the &lt;object> and &lt;param> elements, both declared in the commonElements module. The required changes are:</p>
        <p>For &lt;object>:<ul
          id="ul_lgy_42b_4k">
          <li>Add a new attribute @classidkeyref. </li>
          <li>Add a new attribute @codebasekeyref. </li>
          <li>Add new attribute @datakeyref. </li>
          <li>Add a new attribute @archivekeyrefs. </li>
          </ul></p>
        <p>For &lt;param><ul
          id="ul_kzm_52b_4k">
          <li>Add new attribute @keyref. </li>
          </ul></p>
        <fig
          id="fig_asb_yqd_hl">
          <title>Updated DTD-syntax attribute list declaration for &lt;object> (<filepath>commonElements.mod</filepath>)</title>
          <p>New attributes are highlighted.</p>
          <codeblock>&lt;!ENTITY % object.attributes
             "declare 
                        (declare) 
                                  #IMPLIED
              classid 
                        CDATA 
                                  #IMPLIED
              <b>classidkeyref</b> 
                        CDATA 
                                  #IMPLIED
              codebase 
                        CDATA 
                                  #IMPLIED
              <b>codebasekeyref</b>                                  
                        CDATA 
                                  #IMPLIED
              data 
                        CDATA 
                                  #IMPLIED
              <b>datakeyref</b> 
                        CDATA 
                                  #IMPLIED
              type 
                        CDATA 
                                  #IMPLIED
              codetype 
                        CDATA 
                                  #IMPLIED
              archive 
                        CDATA 
                                  #IMPLIED
              <b>archivekeyrefs</b> 
                        CDATA 
                                  #IMPLIED
              standby 
                        CDATA 
                                  #IMPLIED
              height 
                        NMTOKEN 
                                  #IMPLIED
              width 
                        NMTOKEN 
                                  #IMPLIED
              usemap 
                        CDATA 
                                  #IMPLIED
              name 
                        CDATA 
                                  #IMPLIED
              tabindex 
                        NMTOKEN 
                                  #IMPLIED
              longdescref
                        CDATA 
                                  #IMPLIED
              %univ-atts;
              outputclass 
                        CDATA 
                                  #IMPLIED 
              longdescre CDATA    #IMPLIED
              "
></codeblock>
        </fig>
        <fig
          id="fig_xtf_jqd_hl">
          <title>Updated DTD-syntax attribute list declaration for &lt;param> (<filepath>commonElements.mod</filepath>)</title>
          <p>New attributes are highlighted.</p>
          <codeblock>&lt;!ENTITY % param.attributes
             "%univ-atts;
              name 
                        CDATA 
                                  #REQUIRED
              value 
                        CDATA 
                                  #IMPLIED
              valuetype 
                        (data | 
                         object | 
                         ref | 
                         -dita-use-conref-target) 
                                  #IMPLIED
              type 
                        CDATA 
                                  #IMPLIED
              <b>keyref</b> 
                        CDATA 
                                  #IMPLIED"
></codeblock>
        </fig>
      </section>
      <section>
        <title>Modified specification documentation</title>
        <table
          frame="all"
          id="table_phv_2wd_pk">
          <title>New and Modified Topics</title>
          <tgroup
            cols="3">
            <colspec
              colname="c1"
              colnum="1"
              colwidth="1*"/>
            <colspec
              colname="c2"
              colnum="2"
              colwidth="1*"/>
            <colspec
              colname="c3"
              colnum="3"
              colwidth="1.67*"/>
            <thead>
              <row>
                <entry>New or Modified Topics</entry>
                <entry>DITA 1.2 Text</entry>
                <entry>DITA 1.3 Text</entry>
              </row>
            </thead>
            <tbody>
              <row>
                <entry>object.dita</entry>
                <entry>[Attribute description table]</entry>
                <entry><dl>
                  <dlentry>
                    <dt>Name</dt>
                    <dd>classidkeyref</dd>
                  </dlentry>
                  <dlentry>
                    <dt>Description</dt>
                    <dd>Key reference to the URI for the object's class, as for @classid. When specified, and the key is resolvable, the key-provided class ID URI is used. If @classid is specified, it
                      is used as a fallback if the key cannot be resolved to a URI.</dd>
                  </dlentry>
                  <dlentry>
                    <dt>Data Type</dt>
                    <dd>CDATA</dd>
                  </dlentry>
                  <dlentry>
                    <dt>Default Value</dt>
                    <dd>#IMPLIED</dd>
                  </dlentry>
                  <dlentry>
                    <dt>Required?</dt>
                    <dd>No.</dd>
                  </dlentry>
                  </dl><dl>
                  <dlentry>
                    <dt>Name</dt>
                    <dd>codebasekeyref</dd>
                  </dlentry>
                  <dlentry>
                    <dt>Description</dt>
                    <dd>Key reference to the code base URI, as for @codebase. When specified, and the key is resolvable, the key-provided code base URI is used. If @codebase is specified, it is used
                      as a fallback if  the key cannot be resolved to a URI. If no URI results from processing @codebasekeyref and @codebase is not specified, the default is the base URL of the
                      current document.</dd>
                  </dlentry>
                  <dlentry>
                    <dt>Data Type</dt>
                    <dd>CDATA</dd>
                  </dlentry>
                  <dlentry>
                    <dt>Default Value</dt>
                    <dd>#IMPLIED</dd>
                  </dlentry>
                  <dlentry>
                    <dt>Required?</dt>
                    <dd>No.</dd>
                  </dlentry>
                  </dl><dl>
                  <dlentry>
                    <dt>Name</dt>
                    <dd>datakeyref</dd>
                  </dlentry>
                  <dlentry>
                    <dt>Description</dt>
                    <dd>Key reference to the data for the object, as for @data. When specified and the key is resolvable, the key-provided URI is used. If @data is specified, it is used as a fallback
                      if the key cannot be resolved to a resource. A key that has no associated resource, only link text, is considered to be unresolved for the purpose of the @datakeyref
                      element.</dd>
                  </dlentry>
                  <dlentry>
                    <dt>Data Type</dt>
                    <dd>CDATA</dd>
                  </dlentry>
                  <dlentry>
                    <dt>Default Value</dt>
                    <dd>#IMPLIED</dd>
                  </dlentry>
                  <dlentry>
                    <dt>Required?</dt>
                    <dd>No.</dd>
                  </dlentry>
                  </dl>Add the following rows for the new attributes:<dl>
                  <dlentry>
                    <dt>Name</dt>
                    <dd>archivekeyrefs</dd>
                  </dlentry>
                  <dlentry>
                    <dt>Description</dt>
                    <dd>Key references to one or more archives, as for @archive. The value is a space-separated list of key names. Each resolvable key reference is treated as a URI as though it had
                      been specified on the @archive attribute. If @archivekeyrefs is specified and at least one key listed in the @archivekeyrefs value is resolved to a URI, then @archive is ignored
                      if specified. If none of the keys specified in @archivekeyrefs can be resolved to a URI then the value of @archive is used if present.</dd>
                  </dlentry>
                  <dlentry>
                    <dt>Data Type</dt>
                    <dd>CDATA</dd>
                  </dlentry>
                  <dlentry>
                    <dt>Default Value</dt>
                    <dd>#IMPLIED</dd>
                  </dlentry>
                  <dlentry>
                    <dt>Required?</dt>
                    <dd>No.</dd>
                  </dlentry>
                  </dl></entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>object.dita</entry>
                <entry>[Description of the @type attribute:]<p>Indicates the content type for the data specified by the data attribute. This attribute should be set when the data attribute is set to
                  avoid loading unsupported content types. Note that this differs from the type attribute on many other DITA elements.</p></entry>
                <entry>
                  <p>Indicates the content type for the data specified by the data or datakeyref attribute. This attribute should be set when the data or datakeyref attribute is set to avoid loading
                    unsupported content types. Note that this differs from the type attribute on many other DITA elements. If type is not specified, the effective type value for the key named by the
                    datakeyref attribute is used as the data's type value.</p>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>object.dita</entry>
                <entry>[Description of the @codetype attribute:]<p>Indicates the content type for the data specified by the classid attribute. This attribute should be set when the classid attribute
                  is set to avoid loading unsupported content types. If this attribute value is not set, the processing default is the value of the type attribute.</p></entry>
                <entry>
                  <p>Indicates the content type for the data specified by the classid or classidkeyref attribute. This attribute should be set when the classid or classidkeyref attribute is set to
                    avoid loading unsupported content types. If codetype is not specified and classidkeyref is specified and resolvable, the effective type value specified for the key named by the
                    classidkeyref attribute is used as the class's type value. If codetype is not specified and classidkeyref is also not specified, the default is the effective value of the type
                    attribute.</p>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>object.dita</entry>
                <entry>[Examples section]</entry>
                <entry>Add these examples to the end of the section:<fig
                  id="fig_o2l_bfb_4k">
                  <title>Object with reference to video via key reference on &lt;param> elements</title>
                  <codeblock>&lt;object
  id="E5123_026.mp4"
  width="300"
  height="300">
  &lt;param name="poster:
     <b>keyref="E5123_026_poster"</b>
  />
  &lt;param name="source"
     <b>keyref="E5123_026_video"</b>
  />
&lt;/object></codeblock>
                  <p>Where the keys could
                    be:<codeblock>&lt;map>
  ...
  &lt;keydef keys="E5123_026_poster"
      href="../images/E5123_026_poster.png"
      type="video/mp4"
  />
  &lt;keydef keys="E5123_026_video"
      href="../media/E5123_026_poster.mp4"
      type="video/mp4"
  />
  ...
&lt;/map></codeblock></p>
                  </fig><fig
                  id="fig_ukm_bgb_4k">
                  <title>Object with indirect reference to a flash file and fallback @data value</title>
                  <codeblock>&lt;object 
 <b>classidkeyref="video_classid"</b>
 <b>codebasekeyref="video_codebase"</b>
 <b>datakeyref="cutkey370"</b>
 height="280"
 width="370"
 id="cutkey370">
 &lt;desc>A description of the task&lt;/desc>
 &lt;param name="movie" <b>keyref="cutkey370"</b>/>
 &lt;param name="quality" value="high"/>
 &lt;param name="bgcolor" value="#FFFFFF"/>
&lt;/object></codeblock>
                  <p>Where the key could
                    be:<codeblock>&lt;map>
  ...
  &lt;!-- NOTE: Using @scope="external" because
       the class ID is a URI that is not intended to
       be directly resolved.
    -->
  &lt;keydef keys="video_classid"
    href="clsid:D27CDB6E-AE6D-11cf-96B8-444553540000"
    scope="external"
  />
  &lt;!-- NOTE: Using @scope="external" to avoid systems trying to
             download this file when they don't need to.
    -->
  &lt;keydef keys="video_codebase"
    href="http://download.macromedia.com/pub/shockwave/cabs/
flash/swflash.cab#version=6,0,0,0"
    format="shockwave"
    scope="external"
  />
  &lt;!-- Using @scope="external" here because the referenced URL
       is not intended to be resolved in isolation but relative
       to the codebase URI.
    -->
  &lt;keydef keys="cutkey370"
      href="cutkey370.swf"
      type="application/x-shockwave-flash"
      scope="external"
  />
  ...
&lt;/map></codeblock></p>
                  </fig></entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>param.dita</entry>
                <entry>[Attribute description table]</entry>
                <entry>Add row for new attribute @keyref:<dl>
                  <dlentry>
                    <dt>Name</dt>
                    <dd>keyref</dd>
                  </dlentry>
                  <dlentry>
                    <dt>Description</dt>
                    <dd>
                      <p>Key reference to the thing the parameter references, when the parameter has a literal or effective value type of "ref".</p>
                    </dd>
                    <dd>When @keyref is specified, it implies a value of "ref" for @valuetype if @valuetype is not specified. If @valuetype is specified with a value other than "ref", @keyref is
                      ignored. <p>When the effective value of @valuetype is "ref" and @keyref is specified, the @value attribute value, if specified, is used as the fallback URI when the key reference
                      cannot be resolved. A key that has no associated resource, only link text, is considered to be unresolved for the purpose of the @keyref element.</p></dd>
                  </dlentry>
                  <dlentry>
                    <dt>Data Type</dt>
                    <dd>CDATA</dd>
                  </dlentry>
                  <dlentry>
                    <dt>Default Value</dt>
                    <dd>#IMPLIED</dd>
                  </dlentry>
                  <dlentry>
                    <dt>Required?</dt>
                    <dd>No.</dd>
                  </dlentry>
                  </dl></entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>param.dita</entry>
                <entry>[In attribute description table]<p>This attribute specifies the content type of the resource designated by the value attribute only in the case where valuetype is set to "ref".
                  This attribute specifies for the user agent the type of values that will be found at the URI designated by value. Note that this differs from the type attribute on many other DITA
                  elements.</p></entry>
                <entry>
                  <p>This attribute specifies the content type of the resource designated by the value or keyref attribute only in the case where valuetype is set to "ref". This attribute specifies
                    for the user agent the type of values that will be found at the URI designated by value. Note that this differs from the type attribute on many other DITA elements. If type is not
                    specified and keyref is specified and is resolvable, the effective type value specified for the key named by the keyref attribute is used as the parameter's type value.</p>
                </entry>
              </row>
            </tbody>
          </tgroup>
        </table>
      </section>
    </body>
  </topic>
</dita>
