<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
  <topic id="topic_aqh_5zt_3h">
    <title>Stage 3 proposal: Feature 13023, &lt;div> element</title>
    <shortdesc>New generic division element, &lt;div>. Content is intersection
      of &lt;bodydiv> and &lt;sectiondiv>. To be allowed wherever &lt;p> or
      other block-level elements are allowed.</shortdesc>
    <body>
      <section>
        <title>Champion</title>
        <p>Eliot Kimber is the champion.</p>
      </section>
      <section>
        <title>Tracking information</title>
        <simpletable
          frame="all"
          relcolwidth="1.0* 1.0* 1.0*"
          id="simpletable_ebf_pz4_fl">
          <sthead>
            <stentry>Event</stentry>
            <stentry>Date</stentry>
            <stentry>Links</stentry>
          </sthead>
          <strow>
            <stentry>Stage 1 proposal accepted</stentry>
            <stentry>12 Jul 2011</stentry>
            <stentry><xref
              href="https://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/dita/201107/msg00007.html"
              format="html"
              scope="external">https://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/dita/201107/msg00007.html</xref></stentry>
          </strow>
          <strow>
            <stentry>Stage 2 proposal submitted</stentry>
            <stentry>25 Jan 2012, 14 May 2012</stentry>
            <stentry><xref
              href="https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/dita/download.php/44921/proposal-13023.dita"
              scope="external"
              format="html">https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/dita/download.php/44921/proposal-13023.dita</xref>, <xref
              href="https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/dita/download.php/44922/proposal-13023.html"
              format="html"
              scope="external">https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/dita/download.php/44922/proposal-13023.html</xref></stentry>
          </strow>
          <strow>
            <stentry>Stage 2 proposal discussed</stentry>
            <stentry>31 Jan 2012, 14 Feb 2012</stentry>
            <stentry><xref
              href="https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/dita/download.php/45036/minutes20120131.txt"
              format="txt"
              scope="external">https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/dita/download.php/45036/minutes20120131.txt</xref>, <xref
              href="https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/dita/download.php/45204/minutes20120214.txt"
              format="txt"
              scope="external">https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/dita/download.php/45204/minutes20120214.txt</xref></stentry>
          </strow>
          <strow>
            <stentry>Stage 2 proposal approved</stentry>
            <stentry>7 Feb 2012, 15 May 2012</stentry>
            <stentry><xref
              href="https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/dita/download.php/45132/minutes20120207.txt"
              format="txt"
              scope="external">https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/dita/download.php/45132/minutes20120207.txt</xref>, <xref
              href="https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/dita/download.php/46007/minutes20120515.txt"
              format="txt"
              scope="external">https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/dita/download.php/46007/minutes20120515.txt</xref></stentry>
          </strow>
          <strow>
            <stentry>Stage 3 proposal submitted to reviewers</stentry>
            <stentry>21 June 2013</stentry>
            <stentry>Stan Doherty, Don Day</stentry>
          </strow>
          <strow>
            <stentry>Stage 3 proposal (this document) submitted</stentry>
            <stentry>19 Aug 2013</stentry>
            <stentry/>
          </strow>
        </simpletable>
      </section>
      <section>
        <title>Approved technical requirements</title>
        <p>Allow &lt;div> wherever &lt;p> is allowed or any block context where &lt;p> is not allowed for some reason (including within &lt;p>, &lt;fig>, etc.). The design intent is to allow &lt;div>
          in all block-containing contexts. </p>
        <p>Define a new element type, &lt;div>, that allows all body content except &lt;section> and also allows &lt;div>.</p>
      </section>
      <section>
        <title>Dependencies or interrelated proposals</title>
        <p>There are no related proposals.</p>
      </section>
      <section>
        <title>Modified DTDs</title>
        <p>For DTDs, the specific changes are:<ul
          id="ul_ex2_p2y_4k">
          <li>Declare the parameter entity %div in the commonElements.div
            module:<codeblock>&lt;!ENTITY % div          "div"                                         ></codeblock></li>
          <li>Declare the &lt;div> element type in the commonElements.mod
            module:<codeblock>&lt;!--                    LONG NAME: Div element                    -->
&lt;!ENTITY % div.content
                       "(#PCDATA | 
                         %basic.block; | 
                         %basic.ph; | 
                         %data.elements.incl; | 
                         %foreign.unknown.incl; | 
                         %txt.incl;)*
">
&lt;!ENTITY % div.attributes
             "%data-element-atts;"
>
&lt;!ELEMENT div    %div.content;>
&lt;!ATTLIST div    %div.attributes;></codeblock></li>
          <li>Add %div; to the following parameter entities:<ul
            id="ul_sx2_p2y_4k">
            <li>%basic.block</li>
            <li>%basic.block.notbl</li>
            <li>%basic.block.nonote</li>
            <li>%basic.block.nopara</li>
            <li>%basic.block.nolq</li>
            <li>%basic.block.notbnofg</li>
            <li>%basic.block.notbfgobj</li>
            </ul></li>
          <li>Declare the @class
            attribute:<codeblock>&lt;!ATTLIST div       %global-atts;  class CDATA "- topic/div "       ></codeblock></li>
          </ul></p>
      </section>
      <section>
        <title>Modified specification documentation</title>
        <p>Provide a listing of new or modified topics. For existing topics, provide the location of
          the DITA 1.2 topic; for new topics, suggest where you think the topic should be located in
          the TOC.</p>
        <p>List the exact language suggested for the topics. For existing topics, you can use a
          table to compare the DITA 1.2 text and the proposed text for DITA 1.3. For new topics, use
          the templates nested within this topic. </p>
        <table
          frame="all"
          id="table_x1k_dfy_4k">
          <title>Modified Topics</title>
          <tgroup
            cols="3">
            <colspec
              colname="c1"
              colnum="1"
              colwidth="1.02*"/>
            <colspec
              colname="c2"
              colnum="2"
              colwidth="1*"/>
            <colspec
              colname="c3"
              colnum="3"
              colwidth="1.01*"/>
            <thead>
              <row>
                <entry>Topic Name</entry>
                <entry>DITA 1.2 Text</entry>
                <entry>DITA 1.3 Text</entry>
              </row>
            </thead>
            <tbody>
              <row>
                <entry>topiccontent.dita</entry>
                <entry/>
                <entry>Add new definition list entry for "div" as follows:<dl>
                  <dlentry>
                    <dt>Div</dt>
                    <dd>Div allows for the arbitrary grouping of content within
                      a topic. The div does not include a title. Content that
                      requires a title should use section or example or,
                      possibly, fig. </dd>
                  </dlentry>
                  </dl></entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>constraint-module-examples.dita</entry>
                <entry>
                  <codeblock>     %foreign.unknown.incl; |
     %sectiondiv;)*)
</codeblock>
                </entry>
                <entry>Reflect %div; in content model of
                  section.<codeblock>     %foreign.unknown.incl; |
     %div; |
     %sectiondiv;)*)
</codeblock></entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>dita_concept_topic.dita</entry>
                <entry>
                  <p>The &lt;conbody> element holds the main body-level elements
                    of the concept topic. Like the body element of a base topic,
                    the &lt;conbody> allows paragraphs, lists, tables, figures
                    and other general elements. It also provides two key
                    elements that allow authors to subdivide the topic into
                    parts, with or without titles. These subdivisions are called
                    sections and examples. The &lt;conbody> also allows
                    &lt;bodydiv> and &lt;sectiondiv> to facilitate grouping
                    elements in the &lt;conbody> for reuse.</p>
                </entry>
                <entry>
                  <p>Add "&lt;div>, " before &lt;bodydiv> and ", " after
                    &lt;bodydiv>. Remove " for reuse" since there are other
                    reasons to use divisions.</p>
                  <p>The &lt;conbody> element holds the main body-level elements
                    of the concept topic. Like the body element of a base topic,
                    the &lt;conbody> allows paragraphs, lists, tables, figures
                    and other general elements. It also provides two key
                    elements that allow authors to subdivide the topic into
                    parts, with or without titles. These subdivisions are called
                    sections and examples. The &lt;conbody> also allows
                    &lt;div>, &lt;bodydiv>, and &lt;sectiondiv> to facilitate
                    grouping elements in the &lt;conbody>.</p>
                </entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>bodydiv.dita</entry>
                <entry/>
                <entry>Insert new paragraph at end of first section within &lt;refbody>:<p>Because the &lt;bodydiv> element allows &lt;section>, it may not be used within &lt;section> elements. Use
                  the &lt;div> element for containers that may occur (or be used by reference from) both topic bodies and sections.</p></entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>sectiondiv.dita</entry>
                <entry/>
                <entry>Insert new paragraph at end of first section within &lt;refbody>:<p>Because the &lt;sectiondiv> element allows &lt;section>, it may not be used within &lt;section> elements. Use
                  the &lt;div> element for containers that may occur (or be used by reference from) both topic bodies and sections.</p></entry>
              </row>
              <row>
                <entry>speclimits.dita</entry>
                <entry/>
                <entry>Under section "", add new dl entry after the entry for &lt;sectiondiv>:<dl>
                  <dlentry>
                    <dt>div</dt>
                    <dd>generic, untitled, nestable container for content within topic bodies or sections </dd>
                  </dlentry>
                  </dl></entry>
              </row>
            </tbody>
          </tgroup>
        </table>
      </section>
    </body>
    <reference id="reference_aqh_5zt_3h">
      <title>div</title>
      <shortdesc>The &lt;<keyword>div</keyword>> element is used to contain
        informal blocks of information within a topic. The div element is
        specifically designed to be a grouping element, without any explicit
        semantics, other than to organize subsets of content into logical groups
        that are not intended or should not be contained as a topic. As such, it
        does not contain an explicit title to avoid enabling the creation of
        deeply nested content that would otherwise be written as separate
        topics. Content that requires a title should use a section element or a
        nested topic, or possibly a figure.</shortdesc>
      <refbody>
        <section>
          <title>Inheritance</title>
          <p>- topic/div </p>
        </section>
        <section>
          <title>Example</title>
          <p>A division used to organize several elements together that could
            not be used as a unit using content reference range (because the
            last element in the sequence is not the same type as the first
            element in the
            sequence):<codeblock>...
&lt;div id="div-01">
 &lt;p>The first paragraph&lt;/p>
 &lt;p>The second paragraph&lt;/p>
 &lt;note>This is a note&lt;/note>
&lt;/div>
...</codeblock></p>
          <p>An element, &lt;pullquote>, specialized from
            &lt;div>:<codeblock>&lt;!ENTITY % pullquote.content
  "(%div.cnt;)*"
>
&lt;!ENTITY % pullquote.attributes
             "%id-atts;
              %localization-atts;
              base 
                        CDATA 
                                  #IMPLIED
              %base-attribute-extensions;
              outputclass 
                        CDATA 
                                  #IMPLIED"
>
&lt;!ELEMENT pullquote    %pullquote.content;>
&lt;!ATTLIST pullquote    %pullquote.attributes;>

&lt;!ATTLIST pullquote      %global-atts;  class CDATA "+ topic/div d4p-pubcontent-d/pullquote "></codeblock></p>
          <p>Instances of &lt;pullquote> could then be used in both &lt;body>
            and &lt;section>
            contexts:<codeblock>&lt;article id="article-01">
  &lt;title>My Article&lt;/title>
  &lt;body>
    &lt;p>Something pithy someone said&lt;/p>
    &lt;pullquote>&lt;p>Something Pithy&lt;/p>&lt;/pullquote>
    ...
    &lt;section spectitle="Deep Dive">
      &lt;p>This is really really pithy&lt;/p>
      &lt;pullquote>&lt;p>Really Pithy&lt;/p>&lt;/pullquote>
      ...
    &lt;/section>
  &lt;/body>
&lt;/article></codeblock></p>
        </section>
        <section>
          <title>Attributes</title>
          <p>Standard generated attribute table goes here.</p>
        </section>
      </refbody>
    </reference>
  </topic>
</dita>
