<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN"
 "reference.dtd">
<reference id="IssueNumber00" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>DITA 1.3 proposed feature #13023 </title>
<shortdesc>New generic division element, &lt;div>. Content is intersection of
    &lt;bodydiv> and &lt;sectiondiv>. To be allowed wherever &lt;p> or other
    block-level elements are allowed.</shortdesc>
<refbody>
<section><title>Date and version information</title><p>
        <ul>
          <li>Completed: 25 Jan 2012</li>
          <li>Updated: 14 May 2012 to reflect TC decision to use name
            &lt;div></li>
          <li>Champion: W. Eliot Kimber</li>
        </ul>
      </p></section>
<section><title>Original requirement</title><p>Original requirement as posted to the DITA TC mailing list 26 May 2009 by W.
        Eliot
        Kimber:<codeblock>On Friday, in the context of designing a new specialization for a client, I
noticed that section-div is not allowed within li.

I'm not sure what the finally-approved proposal said but it was certainly my
intent/assumption that section-div would be allowed essentially anywhere &lt;p>
is allowed.

By that logic, I would be inclined to argue that the lack of section-div in
li (and similar elements, e.g., dd, etc.) is a bug. Having forgotten the
original discussion and thinking only of the base semantics of section-div,
I found it surprising that it was not included in li.</codeblock></p>
      <p>The general requirement is to have a generic, non-section-containing,
        division element that can occur in any context, removing the need to
        have different specializations for the same specialized semantic. </p>
      <p>Another related requirement is the ability to have division elements in
        topic abstracts, in particular, in glossary entries, as the base type
        for the &lt;glossdef> element is &lt;abstract>, not &lt;body>. Thus,
        having defined a specialization of &lt;bodydiv> or &lt;sectiondiv>,
        there is no way to use that specialization in glossary entries in DITA
        1.2.</p>
      <p>The existing &lt;bodydiv> and &lt;sectiondiv> elements are not allowed
        in all contexts where &lt;p> (and block elements generally) are allowed.
        Therefore, a new, more-general division element is required.</p></section>
<section><title>Use cases</title><p>The *-div elements are intended to enable the creation of specialized element
        structures that may have arbitrarily complex structure and that are not
        explicitly titled (meaning that there is no provision for authors to
        specify titles). Primary use cases include:<ol
        id="ol_fr4_mjq_bf">
        <li>Enabling replication of legacy markup structures in DITA documents
          where the markup structures are not titled.</li>
        <li>As the base types for question markup as defined in the DITA 1.2
          Learning and Training modules. If the bodydiv and sectiondiv elements
          had been defined at the time the L&amp;T design was finalized, they
          would have been used instead of &lt;fig>, which was the closest DITA
          1.1 provided to a generic container.</li>
        <li>Structures within topic bodies or sections that group several
          block-level elements together for a common purpose. Examples include
          the DITA for Publishers &lt;body-pullquote> and &lt;section-pullquote>
          elements, which simply contain one or more block-level elements as a
          quote that may be presented out of the main flow, as well as the
          &lt;epigraph> element, which binds one or more block elements with the
          optional &lt;epigraph-attribution> element.</li>
        <li>Complex data structures in technical documentation, such as
          structured data values documented in reference information or in
          descriptions of complex hardware components.</li>
        </ol></p>
      <p>Note that case (3) demonstrates the problem in the 1.2 design: the pull
        quote semantic does not include the need for section elements within the
        pull quote and therefore &lt;sectiondiv> would serve as the base
        specialization in all possible occurrence contexts, but because
        &lt;sectiondiv> is not allowed in &lt;body>, it is necessary to have two
        variants, &lt;body-pullquote> and &lt;section-pullquote> in order to
        satisfy the requirement that only specializations of &lt;bodydiv> can
        occur in &lt;body> and only specializations of &lt;sectiondiv> can occur
        in &lt;section>.</p></section>
<section><title>Benefits</title><p>Address the following questions:<ul>
     <li>Who will benefit from this feature? Anyone who needs to create
          specialized div-type structures for which &lt;section> is not needed
          (and therefore do not need to be limited &lt;body>). Immediate and
          obvious beneficiaries would be the L&amp;T vocabulary, which could
          define new question elements specialized from &lt;div> rather than
          &lt;fig> and DITA for Publishers, removing the need for the otherwise
          unnecessary &lt;body-pullquote>/&lt;section-pullquote> distinction,
          allowing a generic &lt;pullquote> element.</li>
     <li>What is the expected benefit? Specializations and their generation and
          authoring would be easier by avoiding the need to have two
          specializations only allowed in specific contexts when one would
          suffice. It would be possible to include divs in abstracts, and
          specifically glossary entries, where today they are not allowed.</li>
     <li>How many people probably will make use of this feature? All users of
          the DITA for Publishers vocabulary, all users of a new-and-improved
          L&amp;T vocabulary, anyone specializing from &lt;div>.</li>
     <li>How much of a positive impact is expected for the users who will make
          use of the feature? This is a significant positive impact for users
          that need it. It reduces definitional, authoring, and data conversion
          complexity and, in the case of abstracts and other block contexts
          where &lt;sectiondiv> is not today allowed, makes the impossible
          possible.</li>
    </ul></p></section>
<section><title>Costs</title><p>Outline the impact (time and effort) of the feature on the following groups:<ul>
     <li>Maintainers of the DTDs and XSDs:<ul
          id="ul_yjv_jmq_bf">
          <li>Will need to update the affected content model parameter entities
            to allow &lt;div></li>
          </ul></li>
     <li>Editors of the DITA specification:<ul>
       <li>How many new topics will be required?<ul
            id="ul_hbn_nmq_bf">
            <li>Will require one new topic for the new &lt;div> element
              type.</li>
            </ul></li>
       <li>How many existing topics will need to be edited?<ul
            id="ul_c3k_4mq_bf">
            <li>No non-automatic updates</li>
            </ul></li>
       <li>Will the feature require substantial changes to the information
            architecture of the DITA specification? If so, what?<ul
            id="ul_p1f_pmq_bf">
            <li>Addition of one new element type, &lt;div>, whose semantic is
              essentially the same as &lt;sectiondiv>.</li>
            </ul></li>
      </ul></li>
     <li>Vendors of tools: XML editors, component content management systems,
          processsors, etc.<ul
          id="ul_1hr_qmq_bf">
          <li>Will need to account for &lt;div>. However, as &lt;div> has no
            particular visual presentation, there should be little additional
            processing required.</li>
          </ul></li>
     <li>DITA community-at-large. Will this feature add to the perception that
          DITA is becoming too complex? Will it be simple for end users to understand?<ul
          id="ul_xc2_5mq_bf">
          <li>This feature should not add to the perceived complexity of DITA.
            It generalizes &lt;bodydiv> and &lt;sectiondiv> in a natural and
            useful way.</li>
          </ul></li>
    </ul></p></section>
<section><title>Technical requirements</title>
      <p>Define a new element type, &lt;div>, whose content model is all body
        content except &lt;section> and &lt;bodydiv> (that is, the intersection
        of the 1.2 &lt;bodydiv> and &lt;sectiondiv> content models) plus
        &lt;div>.</p>
      <p>Allow &lt;div> wherever &lt;p> is allowed or any block context where
        &lt;p> is not allowed for some reason (including within &lt;p>,
        &lt;fig>, etc.). The design intent is to allow &lt;div> in all
        block-containing contexts. </p><p>For DTDs, the specific changes are:<ul
        id="ul_d1n_nb1_2g">
        <li>Declare the parameter entity %div in the commonElements.div
          module:<codeblock>&lt;!ENTITY % div          "div"                                         ></codeblock></li>
        <li>Declare the &lt;div> element type in the commonElements.mod
          module:<codeblock>&lt;!--                    LONG NAME: Div element                    -->
&lt;!ENTITY % div.content
                       "(#PCDATA | 
                         %basic.block; | 
                         %basic.ph; | 
                         %data.elements.incl; | 
                         %foreign.unknown.incl; | 
                         %txt.incl;)*
">
&lt;!ENTITY % div.attributes
             "%data-element-atts;"
>
&lt;!ELEMENT div    %div.content;>
&lt;!ATTLIST div    %div.attributes;></codeblock></li>
        <li>Add %div; to the following parameter entities:<ul
          id="ul_ds5_brj_gg">
          <li>%basic.block</li>
          <li>%basic.block.notbl</li>
          <li>%basic.block.nonote</li>
          <li>%basic.block.nopara</li>
          <li>%basic.block.nolq</li>
          <li>%basic.block.notbnofg</li>
          <li>%basic.block.notbfgobj</li>
          </ul></li>
        <li>Declare the @class
          attribute:<codeblock>&lt;!ATTLIST div       %global-atts;  class CDATA "- topic/div "       ></codeblock></li>
        </ul></p></section>
<section><title>Examples</title><p>DITA for Publishers &lt;body-pullquote>/&lt;section-pullquote> reworked as a
        single specialization
        &lt;pullquote>:<codeblock>&lt;!ENTITY % pullquote.content
  "(%div.cnt;)*"
>
&lt;!ENTITY % pullquote.attributes
             "%id-atts;
              %localization-atts;
              base 
                        CDATA 
                                  #IMPLIED
              %base-attribute-extensions;
              outputclass 
                        CDATA 
                                  #IMPLIED"
>
&lt;!ELEMENT pullquote    %pullquote.content;>
&lt;!ATTLIST pullquote    %pullquote.attributes;>

&lt;!ATTLIST pullquote      %global-atts;  class CDATA "+ topic/div d4p-pubcontent-d/pullquote "></codeblock></p>
      <p>Instances of &lt;pullquote> could then be used in both &lt;body> and
        &lt;section>
        contexts:<codeblock>&lt;article id="article-01">
  &lt;title>My Article&lt;/title>
  &lt;body>
    &lt;p>Something pithy someone said&lt;/p>
    &lt;pullquote>&lt;p>Something Pithy&lt;/p>&lt;/pullquote>
    ...
    &lt;section spectitle="Deep Dive">
      &lt;p>This is really really pithy&lt;/p>
      &lt;pullquote>&lt;p>Really Pithy&lt;/p>&lt;/pullquote>
      ...
    &lt;/section>
  &lt;/body>
&lt;/article></codeblock></p></section>
</refbody>
</reference>
