<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN"
 "reference.dtd">
<reference id="IssueNumber00" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>DITA 1.3 proposed feature 13103 replace @print attribute</title>
<shortdesc>Provides a new select attribute @deliveryTarget that is more generate
    than @print.</shortdesc>
<refbody>
<section><title>Date and version information</title><p>Include the following information:<ul>
     <li>Completed: 17 June 2013</li>
     <li>Champion: Eliot Kimber</li>
     <li>Links to e-mail discussion: <xref
          href="https://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/dita/201112/msg00023.html"
          format="html"
          scope="external">https://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/dita/201112/msg00023.html</xref></li>
    </ul></p></section>
<section><title>Original requirement</title><p>The general requirement is to have content that is conditional on the
        specific delivery target or rendition type being produced. This
        generalizes the @print attribute to any arbitrary set of potential
        rendition types, of which "print" is just one.</p></section>
<section><title>Use cases</title><p>The use case is having content that is specific to a specific delivery
        target, such as PDF, EPUB, HTML, etc. While DITA strives to enable
        complete separation between content and delivery, that is not possible
        in all cases. For example, publications with ISBN numbers always have
        different numbers for the print and EPUB versions of those publications,
        even if all other content is exactly the same. There are many ways in
        which content may be different for different deliverables, including
        different graphic formats for the same logical graphic depending on
        delivery target, different content or navigation structures, and so
        on.</p></section>
<section><title>Benefits</title><p>Address the following questions:<ul>
     <li>Who will benefit from this feature?<p>Authors of publications and
          content who need to have content specific to different delivery
          targets.</p></li>
     <li>What is the expected benefit?<p>The benefits include:<ul
          id="ul_psv_b35_nk">
          <li>Provides a facility that is not otherwise provided in base
            DITA</li>
          <li>Avoids the need to create an attribute specialization in order to
            satisfy the requirement (e.g., the DITA for Publishers
            @d4p_renditionTarget attribute domain)</li>
          <li>Allows a single map or topic to apply to multiple delivery
            targets.</li>
          </ul></p></li>
     <li>How many people probably will make use of this feature?<p>Difficult to
          quantify, but certainly anyone producing different output formats from
          the same source, and in particular, from the same maps. This is
          typically the case for print and EPUB, for example. Certainly includes
          all Publishers using DITA.</p></li>
     <li>How much of a positive impact is expected for the users who will make
          use of the feature? <p>For users who need it the impact is significant
          because it makes the impossible (without specialization)
          possible.</p></li>
    </ul></p></section>
<section><title>Costs</title><p>Outline the impact (time and effort) of the feature on the following groups:<ul>
     <li>Maintainers of the DTDs and XSDs<p>Adds a new attribute domain to the
          base set of DITA domains. Requires integrating the domain in those
          TC-supplied shells for which it is appropriate.</p></li>
     <li>Editors of the DITA specification:<ul>
       <li>How many new topics will be required?<p>Requires one new reference
            topic for the new attribute.</p></li>
       <li>How many existing topics will need to be edited?<p>The "select-atts
            attribute group", "Conditional processing attributes", and
            "Conditional processing (profiling)" topics will need to be updated
            to reflect the new attribute.</p></li>
       <li>Will the feature require substantial changes to the information
            architecture of the DITA specification?<p>The new attribute is a
            conforming attribute specialization, so it does not change the DITA
            architecture in any way, other than to add a new conditional
            processing attribute.</p></li>
      </ul></li>
     <li>Vendors of tools:<p>Tools that support @props specializations directly
          are unaffected to degree that no additional configuration is required
          for this specific attribute.</p><p>Tools that only support the
          built-in conditional processing attributes as conditions will need to
          be updated to reflect this new attribute.</p></li>
     <li>DITA community-at-large. Will this feature add to the perception that
          DITA is becoming too complex? Will it be simple for end users to
          understand?<p>This feature should not be perceived as adding
          complexity. It is a natural addition to the existing set of
          conditional processing attributes.</p></li>
    </ul></p></section>
<section><title>Technical requirements</title><p>Provide a detailed description of how the solution will work. Be sure to
        include the following details:<dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Attributes</dt>
          <dd>
            <ul>
              <li>Attribute name: deliveryTarget</li>
              <li>Applies to the %props-attribute-extensions when integrated,
                effectively extending the %select-atts entity.</li>
              <li>As a @props specialization, normal filtering and flagging
                behaviors are applied.</li>
              <li>Does the attribute contain translatable text? No.</li>
            </ul>
          </dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>Overall usability</dt>
          <dd>This proposal adds a new conditional attribute that may be
            integrated into existing document types as needed. The proposal
            includes a suggested set of values that users may modify or
            extend.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        </dl></p>
      <fig
        id="fig_sdh_jl5_nk">
        <title>RelaxNG Declarations for deliveryTarget attribute domain</title>
        <codeblock>TBD</codeblock>
      </fig>
      <fig
        id="fig_w2c_ml5_nk">
        <title>DTD Declarations for deliveryTarget attribute domain</title>
        <codeblock>To be generated</codeblock>
      </fig>
      <fig
        id="fig_cxv_kl5_nk">
        <title>XSD Declarations for deliveryTarget attribute domain</title>
        <codeblock>To be generated</codeblock>
      </fig></section>
<section><title>Examples</title>
      <fig
        id="fig_msq_zj5_nk">
        <title>Conditional keydefs for delivery-specific images</title>
        <codeblock>&lt;map>
  &lt;keydef keys="image-01
     <b>deliveryTarget="print"</b>
     href="images/high-res/image-01.tif"
     format="tif"
  />
  &lt;keydef keys="image-01
     <b>deliveryTarget="epub"</b>
     href="images/low-res/image-01.png"
     format="png"
  />
  &lt;keydef keys="image-01
     href="images/html/image-01.jpg"
     format="png"
  />
  ...
&lt;/map></codeblock>
        <p>Here there are specific image versions for print and EPUB output. The
          final key definition is unconditional so that it acts as a fallback if
          both of the other key definitions are filtered out.</p>
      </fig>
      <fig
        id="fig_frm_nk5_nk">
        <title>Conditional ISBN Number</title>
        <codeblock>&lt;topic id="copyright">
  &lt;title>Copyright&lt;/title>
  &lt;body>
    ...
    &lt;p>ISBN: 
<b>&lt;ph deliveryTarget="print">967-123345-87-0&lt;/ph></b>
<b>&lt;ph deliveryTarget="epub">967-123345-89-4&lt;/ph></b>
   ...
&lt;/topic></codeblock>
      </fig>
      <fig
        id="fig_adt_5k5_nk">
        <title>Figure with Delivery-Specific Media</title>
        <codeblock>&lt;fig>
  &lt;title>Installation Process&lt;/title>
  &lt;p <b>deliveryTarget="print"</b>>Use this QR code
to access the installation video:
&lt;image keyref="install-vid-01">
  &lt;alt>QR code for link to video&lt;/alt>
&lt;/image>
  &lt;/p>
  &lt;p <b>deliveryTarget="video-capable"</b>>
    &lt;object ...>&lt;/object>
  &lt;/p>
&lt;/fig></codeblock>
      </fig></section>
</refbody>
</reference><?Pub Caret -3?>
<?Pub *0000003625?>
