<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "concept.dtd">
<concept id="ditaspec" xml:lang="en-us">
 <title>Introduction <ph rev="DITA1.3">to DITA 1.3</ph></title>
 <shortdesc>The Darwin Information Typing Architecture (DITA) specification defines a set of
  document types for authoring and organizing topic-oriented information, as well as a set of
  mechanisms for combining, extending, and constraining document types.</shortdesc>
 <conbody>
  <section>
   <p>The DITA specification consists of the following components:<dl>
     <dlentry>
      <dt>Document Type Definitions (DTDs) and XML Schemas (XSDs)</dt>
      <dd>The DTDs and XSDs – along with the catalog files – define DITA markup for the DITA
       vocabulary modules and DITA document types. While the DTDs and XSDs should define the same
       DITA elements, the DTDs are normative if there is a discrepancy. If there is a discrepancy
       between the written specification (this document) and the DTDs, the written specification
       takes precedence.</dd>
     </dlentry>
     <dlentry>
      <dt>DITA written specification</dt>
      <dd>
       <p>While the DITA documentation does contain some introductory information, it is intended
        neither as an introduction to DITA nor as a users guide. The intended audience of this
        documentation consists of implementers of the DITA standard, including tool developers and
        XML architects who develop specializations. The documentation contains several parts:<ul>
         <li rev="DITA1.3">Introduction</li>
         <li>Architectural specification</li>
         <li>Language reference</li>
         <li>Conformance statement</li>
         <li>Appendices</li>
        </ul></p>
       <p>The DITA written specification is available in the following formats: XHTML, CHM, PDF, and
        DITA source. The XHTML version is authoritative.</p>
      </dd>
     </dlentry>
    </dl></p>
  </section>
 </conbody>
</concept>
<?Pub *0000006598?>
