<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
  <topic id="proposal13059a">
    <title>Stage 3 proposal: Feature #13059a</title>
    <shortdesc>Provide a way to associate one or more set of independent DITAVAL conditions with a
      single branch of content in a map. </shortdesc>
    <body>
      <section>
        <title>Champion</title>
        <p>Robert D Anderson</p>
      </section>
      <section>
        <title>Tracking information</title>
        <simpletable frame="all" relcolwidth="1.0* 1.0* 5.0*">
          <sthead>
            <stentry>Event</stentry>
            <stentry>Date</stentry>
            <stentry>Links</stentry>
          </sthead>
          <strow>
            <stentry>Stage 1 proposal accepted</stentry>
            <stentry>August 2, 2011 (13059 eventually split into 2 parts)</stentry>
            <stentry>https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/dita/email/archives/201108/msg00004.html</stentry>
          </strow>
          <strow>
            <stentry>Stage 2 proposal submitted</stentry>
            <stentry>June 3, 2013</stentry>
            <stentry>HTML: <xref
                href="https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/dita/download.php/49395/latest"
                format="html" scope="external"
                >https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/dita/download.php/49395/latest</xref>;
              DITA: <xref
                href="https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/dita/download.php/49394/latest"
                format="html" scope="external"
                >https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/dita/download.php/49394/latest</xref></stentry>
          </strow>
          <strow>
            <stentry>Stage 2 proposal discussed</stentry>
            <stentry>discussion before stage 2 completed: May 21, 2013; discussion of stage 2
              proposal June 11, 2013</stentry>
            <stentry>Aggregated minutes: <xref
                href="https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/49823/minutes2013-q12.txt"
                format="txt" scope="external"
                >https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/49823/minutes2013-q12.txt</xref></stentry>
          </strow>
          <strow>
            <stentry>Stage 2 proposal approved</stentry>
            <stentry>June 18, 2013</stentry>
            <stentry>Aggregated minutes: <xref
                href="https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/49823/minutes2013-q12.txt"
                format="txt" scope="external"
                >https://www.oasis-open.org/committees/download.php/49823/minutes2013-q12.txt</xref></stentry>
          </strow>
          <strow>
            <stentry>Stage 3 proposal submitted to reviewers</stentry>
            <stentry/>
            <stentry>Kris Eberlein, Eliot Kimber, Seth Park</stentry>
          </strow>
          <strow>
            <stentry>Stage 3 proposal (this document) submitted</stentry>
            <stentry/>
            <stentry/>
          </strow>
        </simpletable>
      </section>
      <section>
        <title>Approved technical requirements</title>
        <p>Add a new &lt;ditavalref> element that is used to reference a DITAVAL document.</p>
        <ul>
          <li>When a &lt;ditavalref> element is specified in a map, the conditions from the
            referenced DITAVAL will be processed for each topic in that branch of the map. The
            &lt;ditavalref> will also be used for that branch itself, so that if the branch uses a
            topicref with otherprops="hide", and the &lt;ditavalref> excludes otherprops="hide",
            that topicref and its children should be removed.</li>
          <li>When multiple &lt;ditavalref> elements are specified at the same level of a map
            branch, the content will be copied once per ditaval, with each copy using one of the
            conditions. For example, if 3 &lt;ditavalref> elements are specified as peers in the
            same branch, that branch of content should produce three distinct versions of the
            content, with each version using one of the &lt;ditavalref> elements to set conditions,
            as described in the previous bullet.</li>
          <li>When copies are created due to the previous function, generated output files for
            formats such as HTML must be renamed. This is not an issue for monolithic formats such
            as PDF or for systems that may produce dynamic filtered content without predetermined
            file names. For situations where file names are important, this proposal
              <i>recommends</i> that the names be based on the copy-to attribute, which can specify
            a token to add to the name. For example, if the DITA document is
              <filepath>sample.dita</filepath>, and the copy-to attribute is
              <codeph>copy-to="token"</codeph>, the generated XHTML document would be
              <filepath>sample-token.html</filepath>. If the copy-to attribute is not specified,
            this proposal <i>recommends</i> that processors fall back to the base name of the
            DITAVAL file (for example, "linux" when using the ditaval document
              "<filepath>linux.ditaval</filepath>"). If the author wishes to keep one set of content
            with the original name, the &lt;noFileRenaming> element (described below) may be
            used.</li>
        </ul>
      </section>
      <section>
        <title>Dependencies or interrelated proposals</title>
        <p>COMMENTS: INCLUDE IMPLICATIONS OF PROCESSING ORDER</p>
      </section>
      <section>
        <title>Modified DTDs</title>
        <p>List the files that must be modified and provide the exact code modifications. </p>
      </section>
      <section>
        <title>Modified specification documentation</title>
        <p>New language spec topics will be placed in a new group for this domain, in the "base"
          section of the lang spec, as a peer to the groups for Typographic and Utilities elements.
          New topics for ditavalref, ditavalmeta, and noFileRenaming are included below, following
          the new grouping topic.</p>
        <p>A new topic for the architectural specification will be created to cover this feature;
          suggest placing it after the existing "Conditional processing (profiling)" topic. That
          topic is included below. </p>
      </section>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <reference id="reference_g4g_ll2_1m" conref="ditaval-d.dita#ditaval-d"><title/></reference>
  <reference id="reference_g4b_ml2_1m" conref="ditavalref.dita#ditavalref">
    <title/>
  </reference>
  <reference id="reference_wdb_nl2_1m" conref="ditavalmeta.dita#ditavalmeta">
    <title/>
  </reference>
  <reference id="reference_kx3_pl2_1m" conref="noFileRenaming.dita#noFileRenaming">
    <title/>
  </reference>
  <concept id="concept_xb2_rl2_1m" conref="condproc-subset.dita#condproc-subset">
    <title/>
  </concept>
</dita>
