<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<topic id="topic_wsn_2nk_1m">
  <title>Eliot's Thoughts and Comments on Proposal 13059</title>
  <body>
    <p> I don’t have a problem with the general intent and specification of the proposal, but I do think that how it’s defined and described is not right. I think the current proposal text is too
      closely tied to one particular processing technique (the OT’s builtin-in XHTML processing) and in general defined too much in terms of rendition. </p><p>I think the mechanism is fundamentally not about rendition but about map augmentation.

</p><p>That is, the primary result of applying branch DITAVAL processing is a new effective map and set of associated referenced resources. How the effective map and resource set gets rendered is really immaterial to the semantics of the proposal, because the rendition would be no different than if the effective map had been the original literal map.

</p><p>In particular, all the discussion around the renaming of copied resources needs to be made more abstract and defined solely in terms of the effective map, rather than in terms of any possible rendition implications.

</p><p>If we do this, it should then be easier to work out the implications for keys, which I think is the biggest potential problem here.

</p>
    <p>In addition, the propose restriction that you cannot have nested conditional branches is neither necessary nor a tenable restriction. It would disallow, for example, submaps with conditional
      branches. It is, as always, up to map authors not to do silly things, like define branches in such a way that you get an explosion of branches, but on the other hand there are certainly
      compelling use cases that require nested filtered branches. </p>
  </body>
  <topic
    id="topic_hgb_gqk_1m">
    <title>Resource and Key Renaming Due to Branch Duplication</title>
    <body>
      <p>Determining the effective name and associated keys for a given referenced resource is obviously an important issue and a potential source of problems with this specification. The current
        proposal is insufficient in this regard. In particular, the reliance on @copy-to is not sufficient--the proposal must also address key scopes and key names for and within filtered
        branches.</p>
      <p>Within a branch there are three sets of names that may need to be disambiguated:<ul
        id="ul_vpr_drk_1m">
        <li>Resource locations of referenced resources, e.g., "filenames". I think it's important to emphasize that DITA is a Web standard and that what topicrefs point to are resources with
          associated URIs. The effect of the @copy-to attribute is to modify the effective location of the referenced resource (meaning its source location) by modifying the last component of the
          resource path component of the URL (when the URI is a URL). </li>
        <li>The names of keys defined on topicrefs within the branch</li>
        <li>The names of key scopes defined on topicrefs within the branch</li>
        </ul></p>
      <p>Note that topic IDs are not affected because topics are always located within the context of the XML document resource that contains them, so modifying the URI is sufficient.</p>
      <p>Given this analysis, it should be clear that @copy-to is not sufficient to address the naming requirements.</p>
      <p>Rather, I think that the &lt;ditavalref> needs to provide metadata that lets the author determine how each of these three names is or is not modified and do so with both prefixes and
        suffixes. This suggests a set of elements like:<ul
        id="ul_mp4_xrk_1m">
        <li>&lt;resourcePrefix>apple-&lt;/resourcePrefix> -- Construct the effective resource location by prepending "apple-" to the base names of all referenced resources, e.g. "mytopic.dita" becomes
          "apple-mytopic.dita".</li>
        <li>&lt;resourceSuffix>-apple&lt;/resourceSuffix> -- Construct the effective resource location by appending "-apple" to the base names of all referenced resources, e.g. "mytopic.dita" becomes
          "mytopic-apple.dita".</li>
        <li>&lt;keyscopePrefix>apple-&lt;/keyscopePrefix> -- Construct the effective key scopes by prepending "apple-" to the scope name specified for the branch root topicref. If the branch root
          topicref does not specify a scope name, its scope name is taken to be "" (empty string), to which the prefix is prepended. This means that copied branches will always have an effective key
          scope when either keyscopePrefix or keyscopeSuffix is specified.</li>
        <li>&lt;keyscopeSuffix>-apple&lt;/keyscopeSuffix> -- Construct the effective key scopes by appending "-apple" to the scope names specified for all topicrefs within the branch, including the
          branch root topicref. If the branch root topicref does not specify a scope name, the scope name is taken to be "" (empty string), to which the prefix is appended.</li>
        <li>&lt;keynamePrefix>apple-&lt;/keynamePrefix>  -- Construct the effective key names for all key-defining topicrefs in the branch by prepending "apple-" to the keys names specified for all
          topicrefs within the branch, including the branch root topicref. </li>
        <li>&lt;keynameSuffix>-apple&lt;/keynamePrefix>  -- Construct the effective key names for all key-defining topicrefs in the branch by appending "-apple" to the keys names specified for all
          topicrefs within the branch, including the branch root topicref. </li>
        </ul></p>
      <p>In all cases, the default would be no prefix or suffix and no renaming of resources, keys or key scopes. In general, it would be user error to fail to specify either a key scope prefix or
        suffix or key name prefix or suffix when the branch defines keys. In that case, normal key precedence rules would apply.</p>
      <p>I think that each second and subsequent copy of the branch should always establish a key scope. If the branch specifies a scope name, then that's inherent in the copy (key scope names do not
        need to be unique within their parent scope pre Chris' proposal). If does not specify a scope name, then the processor should define an arbitrary and unique-in-the-current-scope scope name for
        the effective branch. This ensures that unqualified key references made within the branch will always resolve to resources within the branch, which would be normal user expectation. The only
        reason to specify a scope prefix or suffix is when you want to be able to address keys within a copied branch's scope, for which you need to know the effective scope name.</p>
      <p>Note that there is no <i>processing</i> requirement to make copies of resources referenced from branch copies and therefore no reason for it to be the default, meaning that authors should not
        need to explicitly turn off renaming as in the original proposal. Rather, you need to turn on renaming when it's important to you.</p>
      <p>In most cases the location details of resources should not be important because, in the general case, public addresses of things, including generated HTML files, should be derived from
        associated keys, coupled with processor-specific mechanisms (e.g., deliverable address construction rules), not source resource locations. This is true for many reasons, but the most
        compelling one is simply that map authors have full control over key names, but little or no control over the locations and names of referenced resources. Therefore, if the requirement is to
        enable map authors to enable persistent public addresses for rendered artifacts, keys are the thing they should depend on, not source resource locations. Essentially, the @copy-to mechanism
        was always a workaround for the lack of keys by which persistent addresses could be defined. With the advent of keys the need for @copy-to should have gone away, but the OT's HTML generation
        process hasn't caught up to that yet.</p>
      <p>For keys and key scopes, I don't think there's any useful automatic renaming, since there would be no way to reference automatically-renamed keys. Thus, if duplicating a branch would cause
        keys to be duplicated, the map author must specify either a keyscope prefix or suffix or a key prefix or suffix.</p>
      <p>In the case of key scopes, if the branch specifies a key scope, then each copy of the branch will establish a distinct key scope and unqualified key references within the branch will continue
        to work as expected. The only reason to specify a key scope prefix or suffix would be if you want to able to explicitly reference the branch copy from outside the scope.</p>
      <p>Given key scopes, I think it would be rare to want to modify key names directly, so I would expect the key name suffix and prefix feature to be little used, since key scopes would give you
        the same effect while making topic authoring easier (because authors wouldn't necessarily need to know about the effective key names for references to keys within the scope, which would be the
        usual case).</p>
      <p>Note that authors creating key references do have to know about either effective key names or effective key scope names, so there has to be some communication from map authors to topic
        authors. It also implies that editing tools that provide lists of available keys would need to determine the effective key scopes and key names in order to provide complete lists.</p>
      <p>I don't think it's a good idea to use the filename of the DITAVAL file, or any properties defined in it, to determine any of these names. The map author may have no control over the DITAVAL
        filename or the contents of the DITAVAL file. It also creates a greater degree of separation between references to names (key references to resources) and the definition of what the names are:
        authors would need to know to take either the DITAVAL filename into account or look inside the DITAVAL file for specific properties.</p>
      <p>Thus, I think that all name modification should be driven exclusively by metadata specified on the &lt;ditavalref>. This removes a small convenience for map authors but makes things much
        simpler for authors creating references to things in implicit branch copies.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic
    id="topic_ych_jnk_1m">
    <title>Branch Filtering as Effective Map Generation</title>
    <body>
      <p>DITA has always had an implicit or explicit concept of "effective map", meaning the result of applying processing to the initial input map to produce a single effective map in which maprefs
        have been resolved, conrefs have been resolved, metadata has been propagated down the map tree, and so on. This process is more or less represented by the "map pull" processing in the
        Toolkit.</p>
      <p>The <term>effective map</term> is implicit in the root map and must be deterministic, meaning that there should be no processor-determinable variables that would produce different effective
        maps for the same input map. That is, given the same starting map and DITAVAL specifications, two conforming processors must produce the same effective map, except for resource location
        details, which are necessarily processor-specific.</p>
      <p>The effective map can of course be represented by generating a new map document but it need not be, meaning that the DITA specification does not need to specify the effective map generation
        as an actual process, it only needs to say what the properties of the effective map are.</p>
      <p>This means that in terms of the spec language, all statements need to be declarative statements of the form "the effective map has/does not have a given feature" rather than procedural
        statements like "the topicref is removed" or "the metadata is added". Procedural explanations can be used in non-normative information to explain the feature, but the normative specification
        should always be declarative, not procedural.</p>
      <p>I think with this proposal that it is probably necessary to rework the architectural spec to make the concept of <term>effective map</term> more explicit and provide a single place in which
        to talk about all semantics and rules that contribute to determining the effective map. I'll need to do a deeper review of the 1.2 spec to see what this change might be.</p>
      <p>Given that, then the general definition of the branch filtering feature is:<lq>When a topicref contains one or more &lt;ditavalref> elements, the effective map contains one copy of the
        original topicref for each &lt;ditavaref>, ordered in the order the &lt;ditavalref> elements occur, with each copy of the topicref containing only the &lt;ditavalref> to which it corresponds.
        Within each copy, key names and referenced resource locations must reflect the addition of any specified prefixes or suffixes.<note>When there is exactly one &lt;ditavalref> and the
        &lt;ditavalref> does not specify any name or resource location prefixes or suffixes, the copy of the original topicref should be identical to the original topicref before application of any
        filtering.</note></lq></p>
      <p>This definition separates the semantics of producing the effective map from any subsequent processing applied to the effective map.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
  <topic
    id="topic_gmj_lwc_2m">
    <title>Branch Filtering, Conref, and XRef </title>
    <body>
      <p>In the abstract, conref resolution should be done before conref resolution, for the reasons I specified in the interoperability considerations appendix, namely that you might filter out a
        target and therefore cause a conref to be unresolvable, rather than resolvable and then filtered out.</p>
      <p>The challenge here is that branch filtering can produce new scoped key bindings, which would affect conkeyrefs within the scopes of the copied branches.</p>
      <p>I think this means that we need to separate the processing of maps from the processing topics--it is too simplistic to simply talk about filtering in general.</p>
      <p>Or said another way, you cannot do <i>any</i> topic processing until the effective map has been constructed.</p>
      <p>Note that in the following discussion there are two effective maps trees:<ul
        id="ul_hvn_lcd_2m">
        <li>The "direct map tree", which is the map tree determined only by direct URI map references. The direct map tree is used to determine the effective key spaces used for conkeyref resolution
          (conkeyref resolution can only take into account key spaces (global and scoped) defined by directly-referenced maps).</li>
        <li>The "full map tree", which reflects the addition of any indirectly-referenced submaps. Note that the potential difference between the direct map tree and the full tree is only the
          positions of submaps within the tree--the set of unique maps must be the same, since every submap must be directly referenced to be bound to a key. But since position within the map can
          determine key precedence, there may be a difference in the binding for a given key between the key space determined by the direct map tree" and the full map tree, if you did something
          perverse like put all your key definitions at the ends of your maps, rather than at the beginning.</li>
        </ul></p>
      <p>I think the abstract processing model has to be as follows, with the output of each step being the input to the next step:<ol
        id="ol_itn_2xc_2m">
        <li>Select a map to be the root map</li>
        <li>Determine the direct map tree as defined by direct topicrefs and direct conrefs. This process can take global filtering into account so as to avoid processing directly-referenced maps
          where the reference is filtered out. This is technically an optimization detail, but I think that it's important to make it clear that global filtering of directly-referenced maps is safe at
          this stage in the processing.</li>
        <li>Apply branch filtering to determine the set of effective branches and resource locations.</li>
        <li>Determine the effective direct-map key spaces (key scopes). These key spaces then determine the resolution of any key-based map references.</li>
        <li>Determine the full map tree by resolving all key-based map references</li>
        <li>Optional: apply filtering to the effective map (i.e., the effective map will statically filtered before being processed).</li>
        <li>Apply metadata propagation to fully populate the effective map</li>
        </ol></p>
      <p>At this point you have a fully-realized effective map that can reflect all filtering in effect. This effective map can then be used to process the topics.</p>
      <p>Note that whether or not you filter the effective map is a function of the processing to be applied. You  might construct an unfiltered effective map and then process it multiple times with
        different active conditions.</p>
      <p>Note that topic processing must always be in the context of each reference to a given topic from the effective map as each such processing of the topic may result in a different rendered
        result because of the effect of branch-specific filtering and scoped keys. This reprocessing could be implemented in many ways, including making literal intermediate copies of the topic or
        simply doing processing where the map reference context is a parameter to the processing of the topic as authored. In a typical implementation it would be easier to do map-driven processing in
        order to do conref resolution, filtering, and xref resolution, than to generate, for each copy of a topic, the map details needed to then correctly do those things (especially key scopes).</p>
      <p>Note also that there's no reason for branch filtering not to be nestable--it doesn't change the basic data processing problem because the business logic is the same for top-level branches as
        for nested branches, except that you can determine during branch filtering whether a descendant filtered branch will be filtered in or out.</p>
    </body>
  </topic>
</topic>
