<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN"
 "reference.dtd">
<reference id="IssueNumber00" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>DITA 1.3 proposed feature 13041 Facility for key-based cross-deliverable
    addressing</title>
<shortdesc>Defines the meaning and addressing implications for peer-scope map
    references that specify a key scope for the map reference: keys defined in
    peer maps that are bound to a key scope in the referencing map may be
    addressed as scope-qualified keys.</shortdesc>
<refbody>
<section><title>Date and version information</title><p>Include the following information:<ul>
     <li>Phase 2 proposal submitted 28 April 2013</li>
     <li>Champion: Eliot Kimber</li>
     <li>Email discussion: <xref
          href="https://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/dita/201304/msg00050.html"
          format="html"
          scope="external">https://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/dita/201304/msg00050.html</xref></li>
    </ul></p></section>
<section><title>Original requirement or use case</title>
      <p>From the DITA mail list, <xref
        href="https://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/dita/201108/msg00031.html"
        format="html"
        scope="external">Aug 29, 2011 7:11:59 am, Eliot Kimber</xref>:</p>
      <lq>
        <p>Per the discussion on the phone, my requirement is to be able to
          point to a different root map in order to address keys in that key
          space as a separate key space. This is a different requirement from
          that addressed by Proposal 13004, which is about scoping keys within a
          single map tree. </p>
        <p>My original thinking was that being able to bind a key reference to
          any map would also address the within-map-tree scoping requirements
          addressed by 13004, that is, if I can address a map as a distinct key
          space, it doesn't matter whether it's inside or outside the
          currently-processed map tree. </p>
        <p>However, the minimum requirement is for cross-publication addressing,
          which means addressing a root map (representing a separate key space)
          and then a key within that key space so that the data as authored
          unambiguously represents a key-based relation between something in one
          publication (root map) and something in another publication (different
          root map). </p>
      </lq></section>
<section><title>Use cases</title><p>There is a general requirement to be able to author navigation links between
        two deliverables that are otherwise independent, meaning that they are
        represented by distinct root maps, processed separately, and so on.
        Typical use cases include:<ul
        id="ul_dqt_jvn_zj">
        <li>Citations of other publications where the citation should be a
          navigable link to a specific delivered instance of the publication
          (e.g., the PDF for the publication, the EPUB, etc.).</li>
        <li>Links to topics in the context of other deliverables. For example, a
          reference from a task topic in one publication to a reference topic
          packaged in a separate deliverable. This case occurs in the DITA
          specification itself when the <cite>DITA Architecture
          Specification</cite> and <cite>DITA Language Reference</cite> are
          published as separate deliverables. In that case, there are links from
          mentions of element types and attributes in the architecture
          specification to their reference entries in the language
          reference.</li>
        <li>Links to non-topic elements within topics in the context of other
          deliverables. For example, a reference to a figure or table published
          in a separate publication.</li>
        </ul></p>
      <p>The general authoring requirement is to be able to author key
        references and key definitions in the context of one root map that
        resolve to resources as used in the context of other root maps.</p>
      <p>There are two main variations on this use case:<ol
        id="ol_u1k_cb4_zj">
        <li>The author needs to author a key reference that does not know or
          care what deliverable the target resource may be in for a given
          rendition of the topic or map that contains the reference. This case
          is typified by the DITA specification itself, where the references to
          language reference entries from the architecture specification topics
          will be within-deliverable or cross-deliverable references depending
          on which packaging of the DITA specification is being produced
          (all-in-one or separate architecture specification and language
          reference specification.</li>
        <li>The author needs to author a key reference with the intent (at the
          time of authoring) that the reference be to a resource that is known
          to be (and expected to be) in a separate publication. This case is
          typified by a set of publications that are, for whatever reason,
          always published as separate deliverables, for example, different
          standards, manuals for separate products, books by different authors,
          etc.</li>
        </ol></p>
      <p>In case (1) the initial key reference cannot itself specify anything
        about the specific root map or deliverable that the target resource will
        be in because the containing root map for the target resource is
        unknowable by the author of the key reference (which is the general
        case) or is known to vary, as in the case of the DITA specification
        itself. This means that any solution cannot, for example, depend on a
        separate specification of the target root map as part of the initial key
        reference.</p>
      <p>In case (2) the initial key reference could specify the specific root
        map, as it is the author's intent to address a specific map. But this
        could still be problematic in terms of doing <i>deliverable</i>-specific
        addressing and would of course preclude using the link in a case-1
        scenario should the usage of the content change in the future.</p>
      <p>Thus for both cases there is an implicit requirement that any binding
        of keys to root maps or deliverables must be done as part of the key
        <i>definition</i>, not the initial key reference, so that the referenced
        key may be bound to different key spaces or scopes as required for a
        given delivery of the map or topic that contains the reference.</p></section>
  <section>
   <title>Proposed solution</title>
      <p>There are two aspects to this proposal:<ul
        id="ul_bhz_sz5_zj">
        <li>A specific meaning applied to peer-scope map references that also
          specify key scopes. This aspect builds on and extends proposal 13004,
          scoped keys.</li>
        <li>An abstract processing model that uses generated key definitions to
          establish the targets of cross-deliverable links for specific
          delivered versions of the root maps involved.</li>
        </ul></p>
      <p><b>Terminology</b></p>
      <p>In this proposal the following terms are used with the following meanings:<dl>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>root map</dt>
          <dd>A DITA map that is the input to a process that produces a
            <term>deliverable</term>.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>deliverable</dt>
          <dd>The result of processing a root map to produce an output
            reflecting a unique set of input parameters including the
            deliverable data type (HTML, PDF, EPUB, etc.), the filtering specs
            (DITAVAL files), the delivered location (e.g., URL of where the
            deliverable will be published), and any other process-specific
            parameters what would result in a different deliverable (in
            particular, parameters that determine processor behavior where the
            DITA spec allows different behaviors). May also use the term
            <term>deliverable instance</term> to distinguish from
            <term>deliverable definition</term>.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>deliverable definition</dt>
          <dd>The set of parameters used to produce a deliverable. Deliverables
            are identified by the combination of root map and deliverable
            definition, meaning that a given root map processed using a given
            deliverable definition will always produce the same deliverable
            instance.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>location as authored</dt>
          <dd>The location of a DITA-addressible resource in its source format,
            e.g., a topic element, a map, a non-topic element within a topic, an
            image bound to a key, etc. Locations as authored are governed by the
            DITA standard and addressed using DITA-defined addressing facilities
            (key references and URIs).</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>location as delivered</dt>
          <dd>The location of a DITA-addressible resource as it is reflected in
            a deliverable instance. The details of deliverable locations are
            determined by the format and semantics of the deliverable and,
            possibly, by the delivery access mechanism (e.g., reading tool,
            browser, etc.) used to access the deliverable. For example, an HTML
            deliverable would use URLs and HTML ID references, while a PDF would
            use PDF page locations or named anchors.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        <dlentry>
          <dt>production manager</dt>
          <dd>A DITA processor that manages the generation of deliverables and
            that has full knowledge of all peer resources that may be involved
            in cross-deliverable linking and full knowledge of all relevant
            deliverables that have been produced. For example, a component
            content management system could act as a production manager.</dd>
        </dlentry>
        </dl></p>
      <p>All other DITA-specific terms are intended to have the meanings as
        defined in either the DITA 1.2 specification or in proposal 13004.</p>
      <p><b>The meaning of peer-scope map references (extension to
        13004)</b></p>
      <p>In order to enable cross-deliverable addressing, proposal 13004 is
        extended as follows:</p>
      <p>Maps that are referenced with a @scope value of "peer" do not
        contribute to the key space of the referencing map, meaning that peer
        maps are treated as distinct and completely separate key spaces.</p>
      <p>When a map is referenced with a @scope of "peer" and the topic
        reference also specifies a key scope (@keyscope), key references to that
        scope are taken to be references to the keys as defined in the peer map.
        Such references represent peer cross-deliverable references.<note>While
        the author's intent in this case is clear because all the resources
        involved are unambiguously addressed through the key references and key
        definitions involved, the delivered result of such references is
        entirely processor dependent. <p>Conforming DITA processors are not
        required to support the resolution of or delivery of cross-deliverable
        references. Note, however, that the general implication of peer scope is
        that the peer resources are all available in the same processing or
        management context. This means that processors always have the potential
        to resolve peer key references when the peer resources are in fact
        managed together. There may, of course, be performance, scale, and user
        interface challenges in implementing such systems, but the fundamental
        ability to resolve any given reference is ensured when the source files
        are physically accessible. That is, given a correctly-specified key
        definition to a peer map, if the map itself is accessible it must then
        be possible to process that map in order to resolve keys defined by it,
        if it is also possible to resolve keys in the map making the peer map
        reference.</p><p>Note also the inverse implication: if the peer resource
        is not available then it is necessarily impossible to resolve the key
        reference. For that reason, processors must be prepared to provide
        appropriate messages or other indicators when a peer resource cannot be
        resolved for a particular processing purpose. Depending on how a given
        set of DITA resources is authored, managed, and processed, peer
        resources may be resolvable or not at different points in the content's
        life cycle.</p></note></p>
      <fig>
        <title>Example—Peer map reference and scoped key reference</title>
        <p>For this example, there are two root maps: Map A and Map B. </p>
        <p>Map A references Map B as a peer map and binds the scope name "map-b"
          to it:</p>
        <codeblock>&lt;map>&lt;title>Map A&lt;/title>
&lt;mapref 
  href="../map-b/map-b.ditamap"
  <b>scope="peer"</b>
  <b>keyscope="map-b"</b>
/>
  ...
&lt;/map></codeblock>
        <p>Map B defines keys
          normally:<codeblock>&lt;map>&lt;title>Map B&lt;/title>
&lt;keydef 
  keys="topic-b-1"
  href="topics/b-1.dita"
/>
&lt;keydef 
  keys="topic-b-1"
  href="topics/b-1.dita"
/>
 ...
&lt;/map></codeblock></p>
        <p>A topic used by Map A may use the scope name "map-b" to explicitly
          reference a key defined in Map
          B:<codeblock>&lt;topic id="a-1">&lt;title>A 1&lt;/title>
&lt;body>
&lt;p>See &lt;xref <b>keyref="map-b.topic-b-1"</b>>B 1&lt;/xref> ...&lt;/p>
&lt;/body>
&lt;/topic></codeblock></p>
        <p>For the reference from topic "a-1", the key reference is taken to be
          a reference to the key name "topic-b-1" in the scope "map-b". Because
          the peer map Map B has been bound to the scope name "map-b" in the
          context of root map Map A, the key is resolved to the key "topic-b-1"
          as defined in root map Map B, which resolves to the topic in document
          "map-b/topics/b-1.dita".</p>
      </fig>
      <p>The referenced peer map may specify @keyscope on its root element. In
        that case, the @keyscope on the peer map is ignored for the purpose of
        resolving scoped key references from the referencing map. This avoids
        the need for processors to have access to or examine the peer map before
        being able to resolve scope key references.<note>For example, given this
        map reference in map Map
        A:<codeblock>&lt;mapref 
  keyscope="scope-a"
  scope="peer"  
  href="map-b.ditamap"
/> </codeblock><p>Where
        "map-b.ditamap"
        is:<codeblock>&lt;map keyscope="scope-b">
 ...
&lt;/map></codeblock></p><p>For
        references from the context of Map A, key references of the form
        "scope-a.somekey" will be resolved to keys defined in the global scope
        of map B. The presence or absence of a @keyscope attribute on Map B's
        &lt;map> element has no effect in this case. Another way to view this is
        that a key reference to the scope "scope-b.somekey" is equivalent to the
        unscoped reference "somekey" processed in the context of Map B as the
        root map. In both cases, the presence of @keyscope on Map B's &lt;map>
        element has no effect, in the first case (peer key reference) because it
        is explicitly ignored, in the second because the key reference will
        necessarily be within the scope "scope-b" and therefore does not need to
        be scope qualified.</p></note></p>
      <p>For local-scope map references, the @keyscope attribute values on the
        map reference and the map element are merged, meaning that both the
        scopes named on the map reference and on the map will be resolvable for
        key references processed in the context of the referencing root map. The
        referenced map does not create another level of scope hierarchy when
        referenced as a sub map.<note>This rule ensures that the same key
        reference (e.g., "scope-b.somekey") will resolve to the same resource
        whether the referenced map is referenced as a local map (sub map) or a
        peer map.</note></p>
      <p><b>Abstract processing model for cross-deliverable links</b></p>
      <p>Given a map, Map A, that has a link to a resource in a peer map, Map B,
        and given knowledge of any deliverable instance produced from Map B, it
        is possible to construct a normal key definition with a @scope value of
        "external" that addresses the location of the resource as delivered. </p>
      <p>For example, if the link is to topic "b-1" in Map B using the key
        "map-b.topic-b-1", and the topic is rendered to HTML as
        "<filepath>http://example.com/maps/map-b/topics/b-1.html</filepath>",
        then the key definition for use by Map A would
        be:<codeblock>&lt;keydef keys="map-b.topic-b-1"
  scope="external"
  format="html"
  href="http://example.com/maps/map-b/topics/b-1.html"
/></codeblock></p>
      <p>Any existing key-aware DITA 1.2 processor should be able to process
        this key definition and produce a working link.</p>
      <p>Thus, it is possible to use sets of keys with external scope to define
        the mapping from keys as defined in a given root map to the
        deliverable-specific locations of the resources bound to those keys.</p>
      <p>However, it would not, in the general case, be possible to author
        cross-deliverable links this way for several reasons:<ol
        id="ol_h2z_3fv_zj">
        <li>In the general case, it is impossible to know the location of any
          resource as delivered until the deliverable has been generated and
          there is no guarantee that any particular deliverable will have been
          created at the time of authoring.</li>
        <li>There may be multiple delivered forms of the target resource and
          therefore there needs to be at least one key definition per
          deliverable form of each linked resource. </li>
        <li>The set of possible deliverable forms of any given resource is both
          unbounded and unknowable at authoring time. Therefore it is impossible
          in the general case to author separate key bindings for each
          deliverable form of the target resource.</li>
        </ol></p>
      <p>Thus, the only practical approach in the general case is to author the
        link to the resource as authored and let processors produce the
        deliverable-specific key bindings as needed and as the necessary
        knowledge is available.</p>
      <p>This proposal, combined with proposal 13120, Vocabulary for publishing
        process details, provides an abstract processing model and interchange
        representation for the information required by that processing model.
        This interchange representation can be used, for example, to allow
        different processors to work together to produce deliverables for
        different root maps, such as where different organizations or
        departments are producing documents that will link to each other when
        delivered but that are otherwise managed and processed independently.
        This abstract process definition does not require processors to
        implement this map-based approach literally. Processors that have full
        knowledge of all maps involved and all deliverables produced may choose
        to manage the necessary information and do the processing in any way
        that produces working and correct cross-deliverable links (meaning the
        links resolve to the appropriate target in the appropriate deliverable).
        Two processors given the same, or equivalent, deliverable definitions
        and root maps should produce the equivalent deliverables with respect to
        the cross-deliverable links, regardless of how they implement the
        processing.</p>
      <p>In particular, the meaning of DITA addresses to content as authored is
        unambiguous and invariant and not subject to processor discretion.</p>
      <p>Another important implication of using normal DITA maps for
        interchanging as-delivered key bindings is that existing DITA 1.2,
        key-aware processors should work normally given the appropriate
        deliverable-specific maps. Thus, support for cross-deliverable
        addressing does not necessarily require implementation changes to
        existing DITA 1.2 processors simply in order to produce deliverables
        with cross-deliverable links. Any new processing involves the generation
        of the deliverable-specific maps, not their subsequent processing.
        However, because the deliverable-specific maps could be created
        manually, it is possible to implement this specification using only DITA
        1.2 key-aware processing.</p>
      <p>The general process for producing a deliverable from a root map that
        includes cross-deliverable links is as follows. In this process, the
        <term>initial root map</term> is the map for which a deliverable with
        working cross-deliverable links is desired. <ol
        id="ol_vgy_5hv_zj">
        <li>Process the initial root map to determine what other root maps it
          has links to. These are the <term>peer map dependencies</term>.</li>
        <li>For each peer map dependency, determine what deliverables are
          required. These are the <term>deliverable dependencies</term>.
          Deliverable dependencies are represented by root map/deliverable
          definition pairs.<note>The determination of the deliverable
          dependencies may be determined using facilities defined in proposal
          13120, by business rules that define what deliverables are allowed or
          required to be linked to, or simply by the set of possible
          deliverables the processor is able to produce. For example, a
          processing system might maintain a set of deliverable definitions for
          each root map and identify one deliverable dependency for each
          deliverable definition. </note></li>
        <li>For each deliverable dependency generate a new <term>deliverable
          dependency map</term>, containing only key definitions or
          &lt;topicgroup> elements, where the key definitions reflect the
          location, as delivered, of each resource to which a key is bound in
          the input root map. The key definitions must have a @scope of
          "external" and a @format value appropriate for the deliverable (e.g.,
          "html", "pdf", etc.). Where a key definition in the peer map as
          authored is within a relationship table, the key-defining topicref
          must be retained in the deliverable specific-map. The relationship
          table itself must not be retained in the deliverable-specific map. If
          the relationship table establishes any scopes those scopes must be
          represented in the deliverable-specific map using &lt;topicgroup>
          elements. Each generated key definition should include a navigation
          title, per the general requirements for external-scope topic
          references. If the original key definition did not include a
          navigation title, the method for generating the navigation title is
          processor defined.<note>For example, relationship tables could be
          translated for use in deliverable-specific maps by simply changing all
          the relationship table elements to &lt;topicgroup> elements, retaining
          any @keyscope attributes.</note><note>In the case where a map defines
          a normal-role topicref with a key that is then itself a reference to a
          resource-only key definition, the deliverable-specific map need not
          retain the indirection from the normal-role topicref to the
          resource-only key definition as long as the end result is that the
          normal-role key definition is bound to the correct location as
          delivered.<p>Keys that are not bound to resources (where the key
          definition does not specify any @keyref or @href) should be unchanged
          in the deliverable-specific map.</p></note><note>How the processor
          determines the delivered location for a given key-to-resource binding
          is processor specific. It may require actually generating the
          deliverable or the processor may be able to determine the deliverable
          location without doing the actual deliverable generation.</note></li>
        <li>Generate a copy of the initial root map where all the peer-scope map
          references are replaced with local-scope map references to the
          deliverable dependency maps. This is the <term>root deliverable
          map</term> and will be used to generate the deliverable for the
          initial root map. Note that this map is not the same as the
          deliverable dependency map for this same root map. The root
          deliverable map reflects the original map with only references to peer
          maps modified, while deliverable dependency maps reflect only key
          definitions from the dependency root map.<note>A single map reference
          from the initial root map may result in multiple map references in the
          deliverable-specific map.</note></li>
        <li>As necessary, modify the root deliverable map or the
          deliverable-dependency maps to reflect the desired link-to-deliverable
          bindings. <p>
          <note>For example, in the case where there are two
            deliverable-specific maps for a given peer dependency, one will
            necessarily be referenced first, which means that all of its key
            definitions will take precedence over the key definitions for the
            other deliverable. The key definitions could be adjusted by any or
            all of these means:<ul
            id="ul_sbx_fnv_zj">
            <li>Change the order the deliverable-dependency maps are included
              from the deliverable-specific map.</li>
            <li>Remove from the deliverable-dependency maps topicrefs that are
              not wanted.</li>
            <li>Move or copy specific topicrefs from deliverable-dependency maps
              to the end of the root deliverable-specific map, where they will
              override any binds for the same key name in included maps.
              (Putting the key definitions at the end of the root map ensures
              that they do not override any overrides of the same key name that
              were already in the initial root map.). This last approach avoids
              the need to modify deliverable-dependency maps.</li>
            </ul><p>The actual editing of these maps could, of course, be done
            manually by humans or could be done literally or logically by a
            processor based on business rules, user-supplied configuration, etc.
            This process is defined such that it is always possible for humans
            do implement it using only normal DITA 1.2 processors and editing
            tools.</p></note>
          </p></li>
        <li>Process the root deliverable map to produce the deliverable.</li>
        </ol></p>
      <p>Practical implications of this process include:<ul
        id="ul_v4w_d5v_zj">
        <li>In the case where two maps used as initial root maps have links to
          each other, it may be necessary to perform steps 3 through 6 twice to
          ensure that the final form of any link did not cause the
          deliverable-specific locations of anything to change. For example, if
          the target deliverable is PDF and links are to specific pages, rather
          than to named anchors, the resolved link text for a cross-publication
          link could cause the pagination to change in the referencing PDF from
          the first pass to the second.<p>In the worst case, delivery of any
          given initial root map requires producing the deliverables for all of
          the deliverable dependencies. However, in practice it should be
          possible to avoid this through various means, including choices for
          how deliverable-specific addresses are implemented, how link text is
          managed, and so on.</p><p>You can also express this as: a change to
          any of the resources used in the context of any given initial root map
          may require regeneration of the deliverables for any other initial
          root map that has it as a dependency. In practice this means that
          either the addresses of deliverable versions need to be as insensitive
          as possible to details of the content or the production of sets of
          linked deliverables has to be carefully managed to ensure consistency
          across the deliverable set. The sensitivity of delivered locations is
          a function of both the details of the deliverable format and how
          things like filenames, IDs, and named anchors are generated. The DITA
          @copyto attribute can be used to define persistent filenames for use
          in deliverables where a single deliverable consists of multiple files,
          such as HTML.</p></li>
        <li>If deliverable-specific maps are not modified directly as described
          in Step (5), it should only be necessary to regenerate those maps when
          the either the source from which the deliverable was produced changes.
          This suggests that even in the case where there is production manager,
          authors can still maintain more or less persistent sets of
          deliverable-specific maps in order to simply and optimize deliverable
          production.</li>
        <li>Authoring tools may wish to provide the ability to see previews of
          resolved cross-deliverable links. Where authoring tools have access to
          the peer dependency maps they can choose to simply enable resolution
          of the links to the source as authored. They may further provide
          facilities for using deliverable-specific maps for resolving
          references to specific deliverables. This would likely require
          specific features for configuring knowledge of deliverable definitions
          so that, for example, relative references from one deliverable to
          another are resolvable in the context of the authoring environment.
          Authoring tools may also provide features for managing deliverable
          definitions, either as defined in proposal 13120 or using some
          proprietary deliverable definition mechanism. Where authoring tools do
          provide features for using deliverable definitions they should support
          at least the import of 13120-format delivery definitions. Where they
          provide features for creating and managing deliverable definitions
          they should support the export of 13120-format delivery
          definitions.</li>
        <li>Because deliverable definitions include filtering specifications,
          authoring and component content management systems that provide
          features for viewing DITA content with different filtering conditions
          applied, such systems may need to implement more sophisticated key
          space management features in order to optimize the resolution of
          cross-deliverable links as influenced by filtering conditions. That
          is, for a given cross-deliverable link, the ultimate destination as
          delivered and the final link text may be a function of both the target
          deliverable type and the specific filtering conditions in effect. </li>
        <li>Generating deliverable-specific maps requires some way to capture
          the deliverable-specific location of each key-bound resource in the
          input root map. <p>Because the output processor is generating the
          output it must have access to the final locations that each key-bound
          resource resulted in. However, many processors will not have been
          implemented to capture this mapping.</p><p>For processors that do not
          do capture the mapping, a non-trivial change or addition to the
          existing processing will likely be required in order to capture the
          mapping. While, in theory, a human could build such mappings by
          inspection after the fact, in practice this facility will only be
          generally useful if the deliverable-specific maps are generated
          automatically.</p><p>One potential simplifying technique is to
          implement a deterministic mechanism for generating result locations
          from source key definitions such that the final location can be
          determined simply by processing the source map without actually doing
          the final deliverable generation. For example, instead of using the
          XSLT generate-id() function to generate result IDs or anchors during
          final output processing, build the map of keys to output locations as
          a pre-process on the map and then provide the key-to-location mapping
          as input to the final generation process.</p></li>
        </ul></p>
  </section>
<section><title>Benefits</title><p>Address the following questions:<ul>
     <li>This feature benefits authors who need to create cross-deliverable
          links, including the DITA Technical Committee itself.</li>
     <li>This feature enables a form of linking that is not otherwise possible
          in DITA 1.2 using DITA-defined mechanisms.</li>
     <li>It is difficult to know how many people will use this feature but it is
          not an uncommon requirement. It is especially critical for publishing
          contexts where it is not usually or ever an option to combine
          otherwise separate publications into single deliverables simply to
          enable cross-publication linking, such as standards, traditional
          publishing, regulated environments, and so on.</li>
     <li>This feature has a significant positive impact for users who need it,
          making the otherwise impossible possible.</li>
    </ul></p></section>
<section><title>Technical requirements</title><p>
        <dl>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>DTD and Schema modifications</dt>
            <dd>No modifications to existing vocabulary is required.</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>Processing impact</dt>
            <dd>See the proposal details above.<p>The processing impact falls
              primarily on the components that produce deliverables, in that
              there is now a requirement to be able to generate the mapping from
              source key definitions to their deliverable-specific locations.
              Given that mapping (and thus, deliverable-specific maps reflecting
              the mappings), then the resulting deliverable-specific maps can be
              processed normally by existing key-aware DITA 1.2 processors.
              </p><p>Deliverable producers may need to add or refine features
              specific to the generation of cross-deliverable links for a
              specific deliverable type. For example, PDF generating processors
              may need to adjust how they handle PDF-to-PDF links. Likewise,
              delivery or reading tools that operate on DITA source may need to
              expand or add features for cross-deliverable linking.</p><p>There
              are potential additional impacts on authoring and component
              content management tools that want to provide features for
              authoring, viewing, and managing cross-deliverable links. However,
              such features are not required by this proposal.</p></dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
        <dl>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>Overall usability</dt>
            <dd>For map authors concerned only with authoring links, this
              facility adds little additional complexity beyond scoped keys in
              general.<p>The complexity of managing deliverables with
              cross-deliverable links is inherent in the requirement for
              cross-deliverable links. This facility does not add complexity
              that was not already there. Any DITA user trying to do
              cross-deliverable links using DITA 1.2 was already faced with
              implementing some form of custom, one-off solution. Any user that
              does not need cross-deliverable links will not be affected by this
              feature.</p></dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
      </p></section>
  <section>
   <title>Costs</title>
   <p>Outline the impact (time and effort) of the feature on the following groups:<ul>
     <li>Maintainers of the DTDs and XSD: None (no change to existing
          markup)</li>
     <li>Editors of the DITA specification:<ul>
       <li>How many new topics will be required?<p>May require a new topic to
            specifically discuss cross-deliverable links (essentially the text
            of this proposal). </p></li>
       <li>How many existing topics will need to be edited?<p>Will require
            updates to the existing linking and addressing topics to ensure the
            meaning of "peer" for @scope on &lt;mapref> is clearly and
            consistently described.</p><p>Will require updates to the discussion
            of map references generally and the &lt;mapref> element in
            particular to ensure that the meaning of "peer" for @scope is
            clearly and consistently described.</p></li>
       <li>Will the feature require substantial changes to the information
            architecture of the DITA specification? If so, what?<p>No changes to
            the existing information architecture are required beyond those
            required by scoped keys generally.</p></li>
      </ul></li>
     <li>Vendors of tools: <p>See the discussion of practical implications given
          above. Processors that generate deliverables will be affected.
          Authoring and component content management tools will be affected to
          the degree they choose to support authoring, management, and viewing
          of cross-deliverable links. No new features are required for authoring
          and management tools.</p></li>
     <li>DITA community-at-large. Will this feature add to the perception that
          DITA is becoming too complex? Will it be simple for end users to
          understand?<p>For users that have the requirement for
          cross-deliverable links the feature will be understandable. For users
          that do not have the requirement, it could be a challenge to
          understand as the subject itself is inherently challenging. Any new
          addressing feature always adds to the perception of increased
          complexity.</p></li>
    </ul></p>
  </section>
<section><title>Examples</title><p>This example uses two maps, Map A and Map B, and uses them together in three
        configurations that serve to demonstrate the details of the addressing
        and processing. For the purposes of this example, the maps are stored
        relative to each other, each map within its own directory under a common
        root directory. For this example, two deliverables are generated: HTML
        and PDF.  To keep the example simple there is no filtering or flagging
        involved.</p>
      <p>Map A
        (map-a/map-a.ditamap):<codeblock>&lt;?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
&lt;!DOCTYPE map PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Map//EN" "map.dtd">
&lt;map>
  &lt;title>Map A&lt;/title>
    &lt;!-- This map establishes the scope "map-a".
      
         The use case is that you want to be able to reference 
         topics using keys of the form "map-a.foo" from outside
         this scope, but "foo" from within the scope, that is,
         topics that are only ever used from within this scope
         or for which "foo" will be defined in whatever scope
         the topic is used.
         
         We now include the map-a local keydefs within this
         scope so that these keydefs are within the scope
         and thus unqualified references to them will work.
         
         Note that we can't put the scope on the map with 
         the keydefs because that map doesn't then contain
         the navigation topicrefs that we want to be in the
         scope.
         
         This means that each use of topic-a's.
      -->
  &lt;topicgroup>
    &lt;topicmeta>
      &lt;navtitle>Keydefs Map A&lt;/navtitle>
    &lt;/topicmeta>
    &lt;keydef
      keys="topic-a-root"
      href="topics/topic-a-root.dita"/>
    &lt;keydef
      keys="topic-a-01"
      href="topics/topic-a-01.dita"/>
    &lt;keydef
      keys="topic-a-02"
      href="topics/topic-a-02.dita"/>
  &lt;/topicgroup>
  <b>&lt;!-- Include Map B's map as a peer and assign a keyscope to it. --></b>
  <b>&lt;mapref</b>
    <b>href="../map-b/map-b.ditamap"</b> 
    <b>scope="peer"</b> 
    <b>keyscope="map-b"</b>
  />
  &lt;!-- Navigation tree for map A: -->
  &lt;topicref 
    keyref="topic-a-root">
    &lt;topicref
      keyref="topic-a-01"/>
    &lt;topicref
      keyref="topic-a-02"/>
  &lt;/topicref>
&lt;/map></codeblock></p>
      <p>Map B
        (map-b/map-b.ditamap):<codeblock>&lt;?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
&lt;!DOCTYPE map PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Map//EN" "map.dtd">
&lt;map>
  &lt;title>Map B&lt;/title>
  &lt;topicgroup>
    &lt;topicmeta>
      &lt;navtitle>Keydefs Map B scope="local"&lt;/navtitle>
    &lt;/topicmeta>
    &lt;keydef
      keys="topic-b-root"
      href="../topics/topic-b-root.dita"/>
    &lt;keydef
      keys="topic-b-01"
      href="../topics/topic-b-01.dita"/>
    &lt;keydef
      keys="topic-b-02"
      href="../topics/topic-b-02.dita"/>
  &lt;/topicgroup>
  <b>&lt;mapref</b> 
    <b>href="../map-a/map-a.ditamap"</b>
    <b>scope="peer"</b>
    <b>keyscope="map-a"</b> 
  />
  &lt;topicref
    keyref="topic-b-root">
    &lt;topicref
      keyref="topic-b-01"/>
    &lt;topicref
      keyref="topic-b-02"/>
  &lt;/topicref>
&lt;/map></codeblock></p>
      <p>Note that each map references the other map with @scope of "peer" and
        with a key scope. These peer map references bind their key scope names
        to all the keys defined in the referenced map. However, the keys defined
        in the referenced map are not added to the key space of the referencing
        map because of the "peer" value for @scope.</p>
      <p>Map A includes topic topic-a-01 that has a scoped key reference to a
        key in the scope
        "map-b":<codeblock>&lt;?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
&lt;!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
&lt;topic id="topic-a-01">
  &lt;title>Topic A-01&lt;/title>
  &lt;body>
    &lt;p>This topic is "owned" by map A. The references to keys in the map A are
      unqualified. The references to keys in map B are qualified with the key
      scope "map-b". The "map-b" keyscope may be local to the root map that also
      includes map A or may be a peer map referenced with the assoicated
      keyscope "map-b". The key references are the same in both cases.&lt;/p>
    &lt;p>Cross reference to topic A-02: &lt;xref
      keyref="topic-a-02">A-02&lt;/xref>&lt;/p>
    &lt;p>Cross reference to topic B-01: <b>&lt;xref keyref="map-b.topic-b-01"></b>B-01&lt;/xref>&lt;/p>
    &lt;p>Cross reference to figure in topic A-02: &lt;xref
      keyref="topic-a-02/fig-01"/>&lt;/p>
    &lt;p>Cross reference to figure in topic B-02: &lt;xref
      keyref="map-b.topic-b-02/fig-01"/>&lt;/p>
  &lt;/body>
&lt;/topic></codeblock></p>
      <p>When this topic is processed in the context of Map A used as an initial
        root map the key reference "map-b.topic-b-01" resolves to the key
        "topic-b-01" defined key scope "map-b", which in this case is bound to
        map B used as a peer map from Map A. Thus the key reference resolves to
        topic <filepath>map-b/topics/topic-b-01.dita</filepath> as referenced
        from Map B.</p>
      <p>This establishes the key-to-resource binding for the content <i>as
        authored</i>.</p>
      <p>To generate a deliverable for Map A with apply the steps of the
        abstract process as follows:</p>
      <p><b>Step 1: Determine peer dependencies</b></p>
      <p>To determine the deliverable dependencies for Map A we examine Map A to
        find all peer map references. We find one, the one to Map B.</p>
      <p><b>Step 2: Determine the specific deliverables required for each peer
        dependency</b></p>
      <p>For this example we've decided to produce an HTML and PDF
        deliverable.</p>
      <p><b>Step 3: Generate deliverable-specific maps for each deliverable
        dependency</b></p>
      <p>We now process Map B to generate two deliverable-specific maps, one for
        HTML and one for PDF.</p>
      <p>Map B HTML deliverable map
        (map-b-html.ditamap):<codeblock>&lt;?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
&lt;!DOCTYPE map PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Map//EN" "map.dtd">
&lt;map>
  &lt;title>Map B keydefs as delivered for deliverable "HTML"&lt;/title>
  &lt;keydef
    keys="topic-b-root"
    scope="external"
    format="html"
    href="html/topics/topic-b-root.html">
    &lt;topicmeta>
      &lt;navtitle>Map B&lt;/navtitle>
    &lt;/topicmeta>
  &lt;/keydef>
  &lt;keydef
    keys="topic-b-01"
    scope="external"
    format="html"
    href="html/topics/topic-b-01.html">
    &lt;topicmeta>
      &lt;navtitle>Topic B-01&lt;/navtitle>
    &lt;/topicmeta>
  &lt;/keydef>
  &lt;keydef
    keys="topic-b-02"
    scope="external"
    format="html"
    href="html/topics/topic-b-02.html">
    &lt;topicmeta>
      &lt;navtitle>Topic B-02&lt;/navtitle>
    &lt;/topicmeta>    
  &lt;/keydef>
&lt;/map></codeblock></p>
      <p>Note that each of the key definitions from Map B is reflected here and
        that the topic titles have been captured as navigation titles. The
        non-key-defining topicrefs are omitted.</p>
      <p>Map B PDF deliverable map
        (map-b-pdf.ditamap):<codeblock>&lt;?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
&lt;!DOCTYPE map PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Map//EN" "map.dtd">
&lt;map>
  &lt;title>Map B keydefs as delivered for deliverable "HTML"&lt;/title>
  &lt;keydef
    keys="topic-b-root"
    format="pdf"
    scope="external"
    href="./map-b.pdf#page=1">
    &lt;topicmeta>
      &lt;navtitle>Map B&lt;/navtitle>
    &lt;/topicmeta>
  &lt;/keydef>
  &lt;keydef
    keys="topic-b-01"
    format="pdf"
    scope="external"
    href="./map-b.pdf#page=2">
    &lt;topicmeta>
      &lt;navtitle>Topic B-01&lt;/navtitle>
    &lt;/topicmeta>
  &lt;/keydef>
  &lt;keydef
    keys="topic-b-02"
    format="pdf"
    scope="external"
    href="./map-b.pdf#page=3">
    &lt;topicmeta>
      &lt;navtitle>Topic B-02&lt;/navtitle>
    &lt;/topicmeta>    
  &lt;/keydef>
&lt;/map></codeblock></p>
      <p>Note that each @href value includes a fragment identifier. These
        fragment identifiers are specific to delivery format, in this case PDF.
        The rules for fragment identifiers are defined by the format being
        accessed (e.g., PDF) or by the specific reader or viewer technology
        being used to access the deliverable. This example reflects the
        expectation that the PDFs for Map A and Map B will be delivered in the
        same directory, allowing the use of relative URLs.</p>
      <p><b>Step 4: Generate the root deliverable map for Map A</b></p>
      <p>To create this map we replace the original reference to Map B with
        local-scope map references to the Map B delivery-specific maps.</p>
      <p>Map
        map-a-html.ditamap:<codeblock>&lt;?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
&lt;!DOCTYPE map PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Map//EN" "map.dtd">
&lt;map>
  &lt;title>Map A (HTML)&lt;/title>
    &lt;!-- This map establishes the scope "map-a".
      
         The use case is that you want to be able to reference 
         topics using keys of the form "map-a.foo" from outside
         this scope, but "foo" from within the scope, that is,
         topics that are only ever used from within this scope
         or for which "foo" will be defined in whatever scope
         the topic is used.
         
         We now include the map-a local keydefs within this
         scope so that these keydefs are within the scope
         and thus unqualified references to them will work.
         
         Note that we can't put the scope on the map with 
         the keydefs because that map doesn't then contain
         the navigation topicrefs that we want to be in the
         scope.
         
         This means that each use of topic-a's.
      -->
  &lt;topicgroup>
    &lt;topicmeta>
      &lt;navtitle>Keydefs Map A&lt;/navtitle>
    &lt;/topicmeta>
    &lt;keydef
      keys="topic-a-root"
      href="topics/topic-a-root.dita"/>
    &lt;keydef
      keys="topic-a-01"
      href="topics/topic-a-01.dita"/>
    &lt;keydef
      keys="topic-a-02"
      href="topics/topic-a-02.dita"/>
  &lt;/topicgroup>
  <b>&lt;!-- Include Map B's deliverable maps as submaps
        and assign a keyscope to them. --></b>
  <b>&lt;topicgroup keyscope="map-b"></b>
    <b>&lt;mapref</b>
      <b>href="../map-b/map-b-html.ditamap"</b> 
      <b>scope="local"</b> 
      <b>keyscope="map-b"</b>
    />
    <b>&lt;mapref</b>
      <b>href="../map-b/map-b-pdf.ditamap"</b> 
      <b>scope="local"</b> 
      <b>keyscope="map-b"</b>
    />
  <b>&lt;/topicgroup></b>
  &lt;!-- Navigation tree for map A: -->
  &lt;topicref 
    keyref="topic-a-root">
    &lt;topicref
      keyref="topic-a-01"/>
    &lt;topicref
      keyref="topic-a-02"/>
  &lt;/topicref>
&lt;/map></codeblock></p>
      <p>Note that what was one map reference is now two map references, one for
        the HTML deliverable and one for the PDF. The HTML deliverable map is
        included first because this map is for the HTML deliverable of Map A and
        it follows that, by default, cross-deliverable references should be to
        the HTML deliverable for Map B. However, including the PDF deliverable
        map makes it easy to know that that deliverable exists and make it easy
        for authors to get it its key definitions in order to copy them into the
        Map A HTML deliverable map.</p>
      <p>For example, if it was desired to have the link to Map B topic-b-01
        link from the HTML to the PDF deliverable, the Map A HTML deliverable
        map could be modified to copy in the key definition from
        map-b-pdf.ditamap:<codeblock>&lt;?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
&lt;!DOCTYPE map PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Map//EN" "map.dtd">
&lt;map>
  &lt;title>Map A (HTML)&lt;/title>
    &lt;!-- This map establishes the scope "map-a".
      
         The use case is that you want to be able to reference 
         topics using keys of the form "map-a.foo" from outside
         this scope, but "foo" from within the scope, that is,
         topics that are only ever used from within this scope
         or for which "foo" will be defined in whatever scope
         the topic is used.
         
         We now include the map-a local keydefs within this
         scope so that these keydefs are within the scope
         and thus unqualified references to them will work.
         
         Note that we can't put the scope on the map with 
         the keydefs because that map doesn't then contain
         the navigation topicrefs that we want to be in the
         scope.
         
         This means that each use of topic-a's.
      -->
  &lt;topicgroup>
    &lt;topicmeta>
      &lt;navtitle>Keydefs Map A&lt;/navtitle>
    &lt;/topicmeta>
    &lt;keydef
      keys="topic-a-root"
      href="topics/topic-a-root.dita"/>
    &lt;keydef
      keys="topic-a-01"
      href="topics/topic-a-01.dita"/>
    &lt;keydef
      keys="topic-a-02"
      href="topics/topic-a-02.dita"/>
  &lt;/topicgroup>
  <b>&lt;!-- Include Map B's deliverable maps as submaps
        and assign a keyscope to them. --></b>
  &lt;topicgroup keyscope="map-b">
    &lt;mapref
      href="../map-b/map-b-html.ditamap" 
      scope="local" 
      keyscope="map-b"
    />
    &lt;mapref
      href="../map-b/map-b-pdf.ditamap" 
      scope="local" 
      keyscope="map-b"
    />
  &lt;/topicgroup>
  &lt;!-- Navigation tree for map A: -->
  &lt;topicref 
    keyref="topic-a-root">
    &lt;topicref
      keyref="topic-a-01"/>
    &lt;topicref
      keyref="topic-a-02"/>
  &lt;/topicref>
  <b>&lt;keydef</b>
    <b>keys="map-b.topic-b-01"</b>
    <b>format="pdf"</b>
    <b>scope="external"</b>
    <b>href="./map-b.pdf#page=2"></b>
    &lt;topicmeta>
      &lt;navtitle>Topic B-01&lt;/navtitle>
    &lt;/topicmeta>
  &lt;/keydef>
&lt;/map></codeblock></p>
      <p>Note that the key definition has been added to the end of the map. This
        avoids having this key definition override any key definition that might
        have already occurred in the root map for the key named
        "map-b.topic-b-01". However, it would override any similar key defined
        in a submap included by Map A. By the rules of key definition
        precedence, a key definition anywhere within the root map document
        overrides any key definition for the same key name in any included
        map.</p>
      <p>Note also that the key name is "map-b.topic-b-01". This reflects the
        fact that, when the key is in the context of the map-b-pdf map it is in
        the scope named "map-b" (because of the @keyscope on the &lt;topicgroup>
        that contains the map reference). To get the binding we have to include
        the scope name as part of the key name when overriding the key within
        the root map, per the rules for scoped keys.</p>
      <p><b>Step 6: Process the root deliverable map to produce the
        deliverable</b></p>
      <p>Having performed step 5 and set up the key definitions for locations in
        the Map B deliverables, we can now process the Map A HTML deliverable
        map using a scope-aware DITA processor.</p>
      <p>If we wanted to process the Map A HTML deliverable map with a DITA 1.2
        non-scope-aware processor all that is required is to literally copy the
        scope names into the key names and references in the
        deliverable-specific maps. This is a relatively simple post-process on
        the map.</p>
      <p>Performing this transformation on the Map B HTML deliverable map
        produces:<codeblock>&lt;?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
&lt;!DOCTYPE map PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Map//EN" "map.dtd">
&lt;map>
  &lt;title>Map B keydefs as delivered for deliverable "HTML"&lt;/title>
  &lt;keydef
    <b>keys="map-b.topic-b-root"</b>
    format="pdf"
    scope="external"
    href="./map-b.pdf#page=1">
    &lt;topicmeta>
      &lt;navtitle>Map B&lt;/navtitle>
    &lt;/topicmeta>
  &lt;/keydef>
  &lt;keydef
    <b>keys="map-b.topic-b-01"</b>
    format="pdf"
    scope="external"
    href="./map-b.pdf#page=2">
    &lt;topicmeta>
      &lt;navtitle>Topic B-01&lt;/navtitle>
    &lt;/topicmeta>
  &lt;/keydef>
  &lt;keydef
    <b>keys="map-b.topic-b-02"</b>
    format="pdf"
    scope="external"
    href="./map-b.pdf#page=3">
    &lt;topicmeta>
      &lt;navtitle>Topic B-02&lt;/navtitle>
    &lt;/topicmeta>    
  &lt;/keydef>
&lt;/map></codeblock></p>
      <p>There is no change to the Map A HTML map because it does not itself
        define any key scopes other than the scope applied to map B.</p>
      <p>Having completed Step 6 for Map A we have now produced an HTML
        deliverable for Map A that will correctly link to the Map B HTML and PDF
        versions once those versions are also delivered (which they may already
        be). </p></section>
</refbody>
</reference><?Pub Caret -3?>
<?Pub *0000003625?>
