<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE dita PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Composite//EN" "ditabase.dtd">
<dita>
  <topic id="topic_aqh_5zt_3h">
    <title>Stage 3 proposal: Feature #000</title>
    <shortdesc>Provide a short synopsis of the feature proposal.</shortdesc>
    <body>
      <section>
        <title>Champion</title>
        <p>Provide information about the champion. If the proposal is submitted by a subcommittee,
          include the name of the point person. He or she should have prepared this proposal and
          thoroughly understand all of the content. The point person must be present at the TC calls
          when this proposal is discussed.</p>
      </section>
      <section>
        <title>Tracking information</title>
        <simpletable frame="all" relcolwidth="1.0* 1.0* 1.0*">
          <sthead>
            <stentry>Event</stentry>
            <stentry>Date</stentry>
            <stentry>Links</stentry>
          </sthead>
          <strow>
            <stentry>Stage 1 proposal accepted</stentry>
            <stentry/>
            <stentry>Include link to meeting minutes</stentry>
          </strow>
          <strow>
            <stentry>Stage 2 proposal submitted</stentry>
            <stentry/>
            <stentry>Include links to DITA and HTML versions</stentry>
          </strow>
          <strow>
            <stentry>Stage 2 proposal discussed</stentry>
            <stentry/>
            <stentry>Include link to meeting minutes</stentry>
          </strow>
          <strow>
            <stentry>Stage 2 proposal approved</stentry>
            <stentry/>
            <stentry>Include link to meeting minutes</stentry>
          </strow>
          <strow>
            <stentry>Stage 3 proposal submitted to reviewers</stentry>
            <stentry/>
            <stentry>Include names of reviewers</stentry>
          </strow>
          <strow>
            <stentry>Stage 3 proposal (this document) submitted</stentry>
            <stentry/>
            <stentry/>
          </strow>
        </simpletable>
      </section>
      <section>
        <title>Approved technical requirements</title>
        <p>Provide a synopsis of the technical requirements as presented in the stage 2
          proposal.</p>
      </section>
      <section>
        <title>Dependencies or interrelated proposals</title>
        <p>List any proposals that are interrelated.</p>
      </section>
      <section>
        <title>Modified DTDs</title>
        <p>List the files that must be modified and provide the exact code modifications. </p>
      </section>
      <section>
        <title>Modified specification documentation</title>
        <p>Provide a listing of new or modified topics. For existing topics, provide the location of
          the DITA 1.2 topic; for new topics, suggest where you think the topic should be located in
          the TOC.</p>
        <p>List the exact language suggested for the topics. For existing topics, you can use a
          table to compare the DITA 1.2 text and the proposed text for DITA 1.3. For new topics, use
          the templates nested within this topic. </p>
      </section>
    </body>
    <concept id="concept_aqh_5zt_3h">
      <title>New architectural specification topic</title>
      <shortdesc/>
      <conbody/>
    </concept>
    <reference id="reference_aqh_5zt_3h">
      <title>New language reference topic</title>
      <shortdesc/>
      <refbody>
        <section>
          <title>Inheritance</title>
        </section>
        <section>
          <title>Example</title>
        </section>
        <section>
          <title>Attributes</title>
        </section>
      </refbody>
    </reference>
  </topic>
</dita>
