<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN"
 "reference.dtd">
<reference id="IssueNumber00" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>DITA 1.3 proposed feature 13116</title>
<shortdesc>Proposal to add the &lt;cite> element to the content of title, xref,
    and other title-like elements.</shortdesc>
<refbody>
<section><title>Date and version information</title><p>Include the
following information:<ul>
        <li>Revised draft with expanded scope completed on 2/5/2013.</li>
<li>First draft of proposal completed on 121312. </li>
<li>Initial proposal approved on 090412.</li><?Pub Caret -1?>
</ul></p></section>
<section><title>Use cases</title><p>DITA users want to be able to add &lt;cite&gt; to &lt;shortdesc&gt; so that they can add a text
reference to the topic short description. In Chinese and other Asian and Arabic source languages,
there is no italic, which might be used to indicate a citation. When the authors use the
&lt;phrase&gt; element for the citation, the translator must to add &lt;i&gt; to the translation
because &lt;phrase&gt; is used for information that citations in many DITA topics. Organizations
prefer to avoid asking the translators to add an element to the translation. In many translation
workbench systems, translators are unable to change an element. Using &lt;cite&gt; is the best
solution for both Chinese and English. </p>
      <p>In addition, there are cases where a title may need to mention the title of a work, e.g.,
        in a course on <cite>The Old Man and the Sea</cite>, you want something
        like:<codeblock>&lt;learningContent id="old-man-and-sea-01">
  &lt;title>Understanding &lt;cite>The Old Man and the Sea&lt;/cite>&lt;/title>
  ...
&lt;/learningContent></codeblock></p>
      <p>When a title has &lt;cite>, it follows that cross references to that
        title would need to allow &lt;cite> in order to mirror the content of
        the title of the referenced topic or map.</p></section>
<section> <title>Proposed solution</title> <p>Add the &lt;cite> element to the basic-phrase-no-xref content model group,
        allowing it to occur in &lt;title>, &lt;shortdesc>, &lt;dthd>,
        &lt;ddhd>, &lt;glossterm>, &lt;xref>, &lt;cite>, &lt;fragref>,
        &lt;mainbooktitle>, &lt;booktitlealt>, &lt;booklibrary>.</p>
      <p>An alternative would be to allow &lt;cite> only within the title.cnt
        content model group, which would limit it to &lt;title>, &lt;shortdesc>,
        &lt;dthd>, &lt;ddhd>, &lt;glossterm>. But in that case, cross references
        to titles that contained &lt;cite> would not, themselves, be able to
        contain &lt;cite>. Thus it seems to make more sense to use the more
        inclusive solution.</p> </section>
<section><title>Benefits</title><ul>
<li>This addition will benefit authors who require a citation to a referenced
          text and want to include that information in the title, short
          descriptions, and similar title-like contexts.</li>
<li>This addition will benefit authors in languages that do not use &lt;i> as a formatting standard
for citations but require that an italic font be used for citations in languages to which that
styling applies.</li>
<li>Providing a semantic construct for this information will improve consistency
          across topics no unavailable because of the restrictions imposed on
          inline elements in &lt;title> and &lt;shortdesc>.</li>
</ul></section>
<section><title>Technical requirements</title> <p>Provide a detailed
description of how the solution will work. Be sure to include the
following details:<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>DTD and Schema modifications</dt>
<dd> <dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>Topic or map specialization</dt>
<dd>None</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>Domain</dt>
<dd>None</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>Element</dt>
<dd>Modify the definition of the definition of the basic.phrase.noxref content
                  model group to include &lt;cite>.<p>For
                  DTDs:<codeblock>&lt;!ENTITY % basic.ph.noxref
  "%boolean; |
   <b>%cite;</b> 
   %keyword; | 
   %ph; | 
   %q; |
   %term; | 
   %tm; | 
   %state;
  "
></codeblock></p><p>For
                  XSDs:<codeblock>	&lt;xs:group name="basic.ph.noxref">
		&lt;xs:choice>
			&lt;xs:group ref="ph"/>
			&lt;xs:group ref="term"/>
			&lt;xs:group ref="q"/>
			&lt;xs:group ref="state"/>
			&lt;xs:group ref="boolean"/>
			&lt;xs:group ref="keyword"/>
			&lt;xs:group ref="tm"/>
			<b>&lt;xs:group ref="cite"/></b>
		&lt;/xs:choice>
	&lt;/xs:group></codeblock></p><p>For
                  RNC:<codeblock>basic.ph.noxref = boolean | <b>cite</b> | keyword | ph | q | term | tm | state</codeblock></p><p>For
                  RNG:<codeblock>  &lt;define name="basic.ph.noxref">
    &lt;choice>
      &lt;ref name="boolean"/>
      <b>&lt;ref name="cite"/></b>
      &lt;ref name="keyword"/>
      &lt;ref name="ph"/>
      &lt;ref name="q"/>
      &lt;ref name="term"/>
      &lt;ref name="tm"/>
      &lt;ref name="state"/>
    &lt;/choice>
  &lt;/define>
</codeblock></p></dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>Attributes</dt>
<dd> None</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl> </dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>Processing impact</dt>
<dd>Processors would need to expect &lt;cite> in title and shortdesc and similar
            contexts. Note, however, that because &lt;title> allows &lt;ph>
            today, processors already need to be prepared to handle pretty much
            any inline element in titles, so this should have no practical
            effect on processors.</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl><dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>Overall usability</dt>
<dd><p>This proposal would improve usability of the short description.</p><dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>Pro</dt>
<dd>The use of &lt;cite> in &lt;title>, &lt;shortdesc>, and similar contexts
                  will simplify authoring by providing the correct semantic
                  element to the authors.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>Con</dt>
<dd>None</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></p></section>
<section> <title>Costs</title><p>The impact would be as follows<ul>
<li>Little or no effect on existing processors.</li>
<li>DITA community-at-large would perceive this change as a minor
improvement in convenience.</li>
</ul></p> </section>
<section><title>Examples</title><codeblock>&lt;concept id="topicid">
  &lt;shortdesc>This concept refers to the work detailed in 
the following reference text: <b>&lt;cite>Chicago Manual of Style&lt;/cite></b>.&lt;/shortdesc>
  ...
&lt;/concept></codeblock>
      <codeblock>&lt;learningContent id="old-man-and-sea-01">
  &lt;title>Understanding <b>&lt;cite>The Old Man and the Sea&lt;/cite></b>&lt;/title>
  ...
&lt;/learningContent></codeblock></section>
</refbody>
</reference>
<?Pub *0000004532?>
