<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN"
 "reference.dtd">
<reference id="IssueNumber00" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>DITA 1.3 proposed feature 13114</title>
<shortdesc>Proposal to add the @rev attribute  to the &lt;title>.</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <critdates>
      <revised
        modified="2013-01-14"/>
    </critdates>
  </prolog>
<refbody>
<section><title>Date and version information</title><p>Include the
following information:<ul>
<li>First draft of proposal completed on 121312. </li>
<li>Initial proposal approved on 081412.</li><?Pub Caret -1?>
</ul></p></section>
<section><title>Use cases</title><p>The @rev attribute should be added to &lt;title> so that changes to a title can be flagged for
reviewers and regulatory agencies, especially in the medical device industry.</p></section>
<section> <title>Proposed solution</title> <p>Add the @rev attribute to the &lt;title> for all topic types.</p> </section>
<section><title>Benefits</title><ul>
<li>This addition will benefit authors who require that a title be flagged for reviewers and
regulatory agencies, especially in the medical device industry.</li>
</ul></section>
<section><title>Technical requirements</title> <p>Provide a detailed
description of how the solution will work. Be sure to include the
following details:<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>DTD and Schema modifications</dt>
<dd> <dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>Topic or map specialization</dt>
<dd>None</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>Domain</dt>
<dd>None</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>Element</dt>
<dd>Add the @rev attribute to the attribute list for
                  &lt;title>:<codeblock>&lt;!ENTITY % title.attributes
             "%id-atts;
              %localization-atts;
              base 
                        CDATA 
                                  #IMPLIED
              %base-attribute-extensions;
              <b>rev</b> 
                        <b>CDATA</b> 
                                  <b>#IMPLIED</b>
              outputclass
                        CDATA 
                                  #IMPLIED"
>
</codeblock></dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>Attributes</dt>
<dd> None</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl> </dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>Processing impact</dt>
<dd>Processors that explicitly ignore title elements for @rev processing would
            need to now account for the possibility of @rev on &lt;title>. </dd>
</dlentry>
</dl><dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>Overall usability</dt>
<dd><p>This proposal would improve the usability of the topic title in situations where the title has
been changed and requires review.</p><dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>Pro</dt>
<dd>The use of @rev attribute in &lt;title> will simplify authoring by providing a useful function
to the authors and to organizations with stringent review requirements.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>Con</dt>
<dd>None</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></p></section>
<section> <title>Costs</title><p>The impact would be as follows<ul>
<li>A small costs to processors that support use of @rev for revision flagging
          (e.g., change bar generation), depending on the details of how those
          processors handle titles in different contexts.</li>
<li>DITA community-at-large would perceive this change as a minor
improvement in convenience.</li>
</ul></p> </section>
<section><title>Examples</title><codeblock>&lt;topic id="topicid">
  &lt;title <b>rev="121212"</b>>Monitoring the patient following 
    &lt;draft-comment>deleted the word "during" and added the word "following"&lt;/draft-comment> 
the procedure.&lt;/title>
  ...
  &lt;fig id="fig-01">
    &lt;title <b>rev="121212"</b>>Patient monitoring produre flow following procedures.
&lt;draft-comment>deleted the word "during" and added 
the word "following"&lt;/draft-comment>&lt;/title>
   ...
  &lt;/fig>
  ...
&lt;/topic></codeblock></section>
</refbody>
</reference>
<?Pub *0000004532?>
