<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN"
 "reference.dtd">
<reference id="IssueNumber00" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>DITA 1.3 proposed feature 13092</title>
<shortdesc>Allow &lt;ph> within &lt;indexterm>.</shortdesc>
<refbody>
<section><title>Date and version information</title><p>Include the following information:<ul>
     <li>Date completed: 2 Oct 2012</li>
     <li>Champion: Eliot Kimber</li>
     <li>Email: </li>
    </ul></p></section>
<section>
      <title>Original requirement</title>
      <p>Without &lt;ph> it is impossible to represent things like superscripts
        and subscripts in index entries (because &lt;sub> and &lt;sup> are
        specializations of &lt;ph>. There is no reason to disallow &lt;ph>
        within indexterm.</p>
    </section>
<section><title>Use cases</title><p>Use cases include:<ul
        id="ul_fyt_wm5_sh">
        <li>Subscripts and subscripts within index entries</li>
        <li>Any other typographic or semantic markup specialized from &lt;ph>
          that might be need to be used in an index entry.</li>
        </ul></p></section>
<section><title>Benefits</title><p>This change ensures that the content model of &lt;indexterm> is not over
        constrained, allowing representation of any phrase-level typographic or
        semantic distinction that might be needed.</p></section>
<section><title>Costs</title><p>
        <ul>
          <li>Maintainers of the DTDs and XSDs:<ul
            id="ul_hh4_cvt_ng">
            <li>Add &lt;ph> the content model of &lt;indexterm>, &lt;index-see>,
              and &lt;index-see-also>.</li>
            </ul></li>
          <li>Editors of the DITA specification:<ul>
            <li>How many new topics will be required?<ul
              id="ul_g1q_jyt_ng">
              <li>No new topics</li>
              </ul></li>
            <li>How many existing topics will need to be edited?<ul
              id="ul_jkk_kyt_ng">
              <li>The generated content model description for &lt;indexterm>,
                &lt;index-see>, and &lt;index-see-also> will reflect the
                addition of &lt;xref>.</li>
              </ul></li>
            <li>Will the feature require substantial changes to the information
              architecture of the DITA specification?<ul
              id="ul_ezr_ryt_ng">
              <li>The feature does not represent a substantial change to the
                architecture. </li>
              </ul></li>
            </ul></li>
          <li>Vendors of tools:<ul
            id="ul_g4z_vyt_ng">
            <li>XML editors will need to allow editing of the updated content
              models.</li>
            <li>Processors may need to provide additional rules for handling
              &lt;ph> within index terms. In particular, they cannot treat index
              terms as simple strings. (But note that &lt;indexterm> already
              allowed &lt;keyword> and &lt;term>, so there has always been this
              requirement for index entries.)</li>
            </ul></li>
          <li>DITA community-at-large. Will this feature add to the perception
            that DITA is becoming too complex? <ul
            id="ul_lsq_yyt_ng">
            <li>This change should not add to the perception of complexity for
              authors.</li>
            </ul></li>
        </ul>
      </p></section>
<section><title>Technical requirements</title><p>Modify <filepath>commonElements.mod</filepath> to add "%ph;" to the content
        model for
        &lt;indexterm>:<codeblock>&lt;!--                    LONG NAME: Index Term                      -->
&lt;!ENTITY % indexterm.content
                       "(%words.cnt;|
                         <b>%ph; |</b>
                         %indexterm;|
                         %index-base;)*"
></codeblock></p>
      <p>Modify <filepath>indexingDomain.dom</filepath> to add "%ph;" to the
        content models for &lt;index-see> and
        &lt;index-see-also>:<codeblock>&lt;!--                    LONG NAME: Index See                       -->
&lt;!ENTITY % index-see.content
                       "(%words.cnt; |
                         <b>%ph; |</b>
                         %indexterm;)*"
>
&lt;!ENTITY % index-see.attributes
             "keyref 
                        CDATA 
                                  #IMPLIED
              %univ-atts;"
>
&lt;!ELEMENT index-see    %index-see.content;>
&lt;!ATTLIST index-see    %index-see.attributes;>


&lt;!--                    LONG NAME: Index See Also                  -->
&lt;!ENTITY % index-see-also.content
                       "(%words.cnt; |
                         <b>%ph; |</b>
                         %indexterm;)*"
></codeblock></p></section>
<section><title>Examples</title><p>Index term with various typographic elements:</p>
      <codeblock>&lt;p>Many people consider Euler's identity, 
&lt;i>e&lt;/i>&lt;sup>&lt;i>&amp;#x03c0;&lt;/i>&lt;i>i&lt;/i>&lt;/sup>+1=0,
&lt;indexterm>&lt;i>e&lt;/i>&lt;sup>&lt;i>&amp;#x03c0;&lt;/i>&lt;i>i&lt;/i>&lt;/sup>+1=0 &lt;index-see>Euler's
identity&lt;/index-see> &lt;/indexterm> &lt;indexterm>Euler's identity&lt;/indexterm>
&lt;indexterm>2.71828
  &lt;index-see>&lt;i>e&lt;/i> (Euler's number)&lt;/index-see>
&lt;/indexterm>
to be the most beautiful equation in mathematics.&lt;/p></codeblock></section>
</refbody>
</reference><?Pub Caret -3?>
<?Pub *0000003625?>
