<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Reference//EN"
 "reference.dtd">
<reference id="IssueNumber00" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>DITA 1.3 proposed feature #13031</title>
<shortdesc>Provide additional elements to the highlight domain for representing
    line-through (strikeout) and overlines.</shortdesc>
<refbody>
<section><title>Date and version information</title><p>
        <ul>
          <li>Completion date: Oct 1, 2012</li>
          <li>Champion: Eliot Kimber</li>
          <li>Email discussion: <xref
            href="https://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/dita/201107/msg00023.html"
            format="html"
            scope="external">https://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/dita/201107/msg00023.html</xref></li>
        </ul>
      </p></section>
<section><title>Original requirement</title><p>From Eliot Kimber, July 2011:<lq>...use cases that I've run into: <ul
        id="ul_hss_q5c_th">
        <li>Legal documents showing revisions where the revisions are not marked
          using @rev., </li>
        <li>More generally, in a data conversion context where the DITA encoding
          of the document is not itself being revised, but the content as
          captured in DITA needs to reflect strikethrough used for an unknowable
          purpose (at least as far as the agent doing the conversion is
          concerned). </li>
        <li>Discourse where line-through is used for rhetorical effect. </li>
        <li>Informal documents, such as business documents, where the overhead
          of using full revision markup just to get strikethrough is prohibitive
          (in particular, the need to configure and use some form of DITAVAL
          facility).</li>
        </ul> </lq></p>
      <p>Subsequent discussion on the TC list led to the suggested for adding
        overline, which is used in semiconductor documentation. Addition of
        overline also provides a complete set of "line" requests: underline,
        line-through, the overline.</p></section>
<section><title>Use cases</title>
      <p>Use cases for line-through include:<ul
        id="ul_vdb_y5c_th">
        <li>Legal documents, where strikeouts are an important aspect of the
          content and not just a side effect of automated revision marking.</li>
        <li>Legacy conversion, where the semantic of line-through content cannot
          be determined.</li>
        <li>Documents where strikeouts are used rhetorically (for example, for
          humorous effect)</li>
        <li>Specific editorial or typographic conventions that use line-through
          for some reason.</li>
        </ul></p>
      <p>Use cases for overline include:<ul
        id="ul_tjh_3vc_th">
        <li>Semiconductor documentation, where overlines are used to indicate
          logical negation.</li>
        <li>Linguistics, where overbar indicates different levels of syntactic
          structure.</li>
        <li>Physics, where overbar indicates a vector.</li>
        <li>Mathematics, when not using a more complete mathematics
          language.</li>
        </ul></p>
      <p>Adding line-through and overline also brings DITA into alignment with
        the corresponding values provided by the CSS and XSL-FO text-decoration
        properties.</p>
      <note>The text-decoration property also provides the values "blink" and
        "none". In discussion of this issue to date, the TC has shown reluctance
        to include blink in the base language. It is not clear how the "none"
        value could be usefully or appropriately represented.  </note></section>
<section><title>Benefits</title><p>
        <ul>
          <li>Provides a common typographic effect without the need to create a
            separate vocabulary domain</li>
        </ul>
      </p></section>
<section><title>Costs</title><p>Outline the impact (time and effort) of the feature on the following groups:<ul>
     <li>Maintainers of the DTDs and XSDs:<ul
          id="ul_wmx_21n_ng">
          <li>Adds two new element types to the existing highlight domain</li>
          </ul></li>
     <li>Editors of the DITA specification:<ul>
       <li>Two new reference topics are required. </li>
       <li>How many existing topics will need to be edited? Overview topic for
            the highight domain may need to reflect the new element types.</li>
       <li>This feature does not change the core DITA architecture in any
            way.</li>
      </ul></li>
     <li>Vendors of tools: <ul
          id="ul_nw3_j1n_ng">
          <li>Tools that that render DITA content visually will need to produce
            appropriate renderings of the new elements. Both HTML and XSL-FO
            provide built-in means of creating both line-throughs and
            overbars.</li>
          <li>XML editors will need to allow authoring of the new element
            types.</li>
          </ul></li>
     <li>DITA community-at-large:<ul
          id="ul_j1j_n1n_ng">
          <li>Provides typographic controls that authors need today. Should not
            significantly add to the perception of DITA compexity.</li>
          </ul></li>
    </ul></p></section>
<section>
      <title>Technical requirements</title>
      <p>
        <dl>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>Element</dt>
            <dd>
              <p>Define a two element types, &lt;line-through> and
                &lt;overline>, specialized from &lt;ph>, to the highlight
                domain.</p>
              <p>These names reflect the names of the corresponding
                text-decoration properties in the CSS recommendation.</p>
              <p>The element types are declared like
                so:<codeblock>&lt;!--                    LONG NAME: Line Through                       -->
&lt;!ENTITY % line-through.content
                       "(#PCDATA | 
                         %basic.ph; | 
                         %data.elements.incl; |
                         %foreign.unknown.incl;)*"
>
&lt;!ENTITY % line-through.attributes
             "%univ-atts; 
              outputclass 
                        CDATA 
                                  #IMPLIED"
>
&lt;!ELEMENT line-through    %line-through.content;>
&lt;!ATTLIST line-through    %line-through.attributes;>

&lt;!--                    LONG NAME: Overbar                           -->
&lt;!ENTITY % overline.content
                       "(#PCDATA | 
                         %basic.ph; | 
                         %data.elements.incl; |
                         %foreign.unknown.incl;)*"
>
&lt;!ENTITY % overline.attributes
             "%univ-atts; 
              outputclass 
                        CDATA 
                                  #IMPLIED"
>
&lt;!ELEMENT overline    %overline.content;>
&lt;!ATTLIST overline    %overline.attributes;>

&lt;!ATTLIST line-through %global-atts; class CDATA "+ topic/ph hi-d/line-through "  >
&lt;!ATTLIST overline    %global-atts;  class CDATA "+ topic/ph hi-d/overline "  >
</codeblock></p>
            </dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>Processing</dt>
            <dd>Processors that render DITA content visually will need to
              provide appropriate rendering of line-through and overbar when
              those effects are available in the target rendition. For HTML
              outputs, implementation options include using the CSS
              <keyword>text-decoration</keyword> values "line-through" and
              "overline". For PDF outputs, the XSL-FO text-decoration values are
              also "line-through" and "overline".</dd>
          </dlentry>
          <dlentry>
            <dt>Overall usability</dt>
            <dd>These new element types make getting the typographic effects
              possible without the need to define or integrate new vocabulary
              modules.</dd>
          </dlentry>
        </dl>
      </p>
    </section>
<section><title>Examples</title>
      <fig>
        <title>Sample line-through and overline markup</title>
        <codeblock>&lt;!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
&lt;topic
  id="topic_x3l_qcd_th">
  &lt;title>Topic title&lt;/title>
  &lt;body>
    &lt;p>Line-through: DITA technology can be
      &lt;line-through>maddening&lt;/line-through>a challenge to implement.&lt;/p>
    &lt;p>Overline: &lt;overline>&lt;i>x&lt;/i>&lt;/overline> is the average value of
      &lt;i>x&lt;sub>i&lt;/sub>&lt;/i>&lt;/p>
  &lt;/body>
&lt;/topic></codeblock>
      </fig></section>
</refbody>
</reference><?Pub Caret -3?>
<?Pub *0000003625?>
